 Good morning to everybody here on the West Coast. Good afternoon. If you're on the East Coast, and if you're joining us from Europe, good evening and to everybody in between. Really, please, you could be here today. My name is Philip Cunningham, and I've been here with the peak span team for a number of years. I work right now as the Vice President of Strategic Development and Investor Relations, and I've had a career that spanned both the public and private sector as a military officer. I've worked as an M&A banker at Goldman. I've been an investor here on the Peakspan team. I've worked for one of our fund-one superstars, CloudBeds, running a soup-to-nuts corporate development plan. I bought businesses. I raised equity. I raised debt. And today I work in a role where I assist our portfolio companies on driving superior liquidity events. And we've got an awesome session today on how you as an entrepreneur should be thinking about your exit. So today, I want to cover really three different things. One, I want to spend a lot of time, probably the majority of the time on our second M&A survey. We every year will ask senior investment makers their opinions on the SaaS market. And we can get to some pretty interesting data driven numbers on that front that I think will be relatively helpful as you're planning out your 2025, 26 and beyond. Then I want to try to bit about what strategic development is and what that means for you, how you do it, why it's important, and finally we'll round out with what are some tactical things that you can do now. As I think a little bit about the peak spam portfolio, there's a number of businesses that are on different levels, varying levels of their journey. There's some that are, you know, five or six million in ARR. There's others, there are 20 to 30 million in ARR, and then there's others that have scaled have raised other equity, but still are looking for that exit. And they're closer to 100 million in ARR. And I think today we'll have something for all of you. But let's kick off a little bit on our second annual SaaS survey. So what do we do? Who mentions that why is it actually important? Well, our SaaS survey is comprised of leading mid-market investment bankers. So every year we'll take an anonymous set of investment bankers and we'll ask them some questions and we'll say okay we really want to capture what is your sentiment in the market, what multiples will different SaaS operating profiles command and market, what are recommendations that you have? Now I say anonymous over and over again because typically if you chat with a baker they're going to do their job and be very very diplomatic but it's pretty great to get. I'm biased, very, very candid feedback from, from, from bankers, particularly when there's not a process that's in view and the like. And so some of the surveys here or some of the answers from the survey members are pretty interesting. So as we kick off and look into 2024 and 2025, I'm quite encouraged by a market improvement in market sentiment versus when we ran this survey a year ago. So let me break down a couple of different things. Right now, right now there's optimism in the market. There's growing anticipation right now around interest rate conditions improving, which I think is absolutely crucial because it directly impacts deal financing. What's particularly interesting is there's substantial dry powder that's sitting on the sidelines that represents significant capital ready to be deployed when conditions align. Now, most of you have a peak span a half peak span on your cap table right now. And so you understand what it means to have an investor, what it means to have expectations. But when you hear the word dry powder, I wanna lay out something for you today. Dry powder is kind of interesting because typically a fund will raise a large vehicle to invest and there will be a timeline associated with deploying that. If you were to chat with their CFOJ here, he would tell you the standard is, you have a five year investible period and then you're managing the fund for five years. So when you start looking at stats from pitch book or elsewhere and you start seeing this number about, Wow, there's like 2018, 2019, 2020 ventages with capital that's ready to deploy. There's a little bit of a ticking time bomb on that, right? You have a couple of options if you're a general partner or a GP, you can either deploy the capital, or if you reach the end of the investable life of the fund, you go back to your LPs and say, hey, market conditions weren't great, I need to go and extend it just a little bit. And that's fine and good, but at times, GPs don't want to do that. And so it's a great dynamic when you think about the dry potter that's on the sideline ready to invest in software assets that it's actually aging. Second, there's some transaction momentum right now that is particularly interesting. So I think it's striking. We're seeing right now respondents are saying that many folks are planning cell side processes. Right now, I think 93% of respondents say there's planning more cell side processes up from 58% last year, which represents a massive jump in potential deal flow. And then finally, the valuation environment right now is exciting because there's pragmatic optimism emerging. Companies have had time to grow into the previous peak valuations, which makes deals a little bit more feasible. We're seeing what I like to call a Feaster Fam and Dynamic. We're quality assets are commanding strong valuations. Well, others are facing a little bit more scrutiny. What's exciting when you look at some of the verbal qualitative responses from our investment banking partners, the respondents in our survey, is that the definition of quality appears to be broadening slightly right now, which could open more transaction opportunities across the market. So taking together right now, I think that it's pretty exciting that the market dynamics capital environment are pointing to a more positive environment. There's some transaction momentum, and then also both private equity, the bid asks spread between private equity and also sellers is actually narrowing. So, let's put some concrete numbers behind the observations that I just shared with you. And so there's three questions that you see across. Now let's you digest those as I walk through. But looking at market optimism, when we ask our banking partners, are you more or less optimistic than you were a year ago to scale from one to ten, you'll see a noticeable uptick. Nearly a full point. Now, I would argue to you that that's not a marginal improvement. It represents a fundamental shift in the market outlook when we ran the survey a year ago. On the second point, we ask people about forward indicators. And when I think about forward indicators, so investment bankers perspective, that is engagements with clients, that's in the A's that are signed, that's pitch activity that's going on. We see a similar upkick in encouragement levels. The market isn't just hopeful, but there are tangible signs of increased activities. And I will say, if you look at question one question two and you're a cynic here and you're like my granddad who used to say take your optimism and put that in one hand and spit in another and see what gets you more. I understand that right? Optimism is one thing. It's hope. It's hope and it's hope. But I will guide you cynics that are on the call and I'm a glass half empty sometimes. I must admit to the third question which is, well, Blunt, are you launching more or less processes now than a year ago? And strikingly, 92% of our bankers, 14 different respondents from 14 different banks said yes, we are more in 2024 going into 2025. I would argue that that suggests we're building towards what could be a very active period for SAS. So we had a couple of our bankers provide just a little bit of qualitative color to the numbers that you saw on the last piece. And you know, walking through there's I think it's kind of interesting there's an interesting supply demand dynamic that's a play right now while quality staff's businesses remain at high demand we're expecting the threshold of what constitutes quality to adjust a little bit to a more rational level that should drive more transaction volume as valuations become considerably more realistic for a broader set of companies. Second, we are observing upward pressure on valuations which might seem a little bit counterintuitive. of, but this is being driven by sponsors filling and cross-pressure, increased pressure to deploy capital. We're going to have a chat in just a couple minutes ago about dry powder and dry powder from different ventages that is aging. That is combined with surprisingly resilient economic performance and the potential for interest rates to come down considerably more than they have right now is adding another tailwind to this trend. That's exciting. Third, the macro environment appears to be aligning favorably, right? the combination of lower interest rates right now and what we hope will be more political certainty post-election could create a more conducive in the M&A environment right now. There's a potential reopening of IPO markets which could provide another valuable exit opportunity. Now, if you are at Peak Stand Portfolio Company and you're saying, yeah IPO is actually not my path, you would likely be correct, right? But the reason that you care about the IPO market is because your later stage growth equity partners it could invest in you need to provide liquidity on their current investments to their LPs. The more liquidity they provide, the more funds that they can raise and the more investments that they can do. So you actually do care a lot about the political environment. Can we get them in a deals large scale or small scale done? You do care about the IPO market. You do care if the Fed is raising interest rates and hampering demand for things like your software business or not, even if it doesn't directly affect you, it does indirectly. Now, what are some considerations as we move into the next year. Well, the bid asks Fred between what buyers want to pay and what sellers think their businesses worth, cough cough, entrepreneurs who have high evaluation expectations are speaking to you right now. This is a persistent challenge, particularly in private equity to private equity transactions. We're justifying those peak valuations. You think back, oh my God, I was in the zero interest rate environment last year. Things were great. People were throwing money. No, no, no, no, no. That's pretty different market right now. That's a sticking point if you're holding on to those valuations in the past couple of years. There also exists a couple of macro uncertainties around whether or not, you know, some of the spending plans right now, at least here in the US, are going to create a situation with interest rates on do we have to hold a little higher for longer and dampen a little bit of the demand that we need for people to procure our software as entrepreneurs and management teams. That's on dealmakers minds right now. When we look across company, you know, fundamentals, we're seeing some concerns specifically around customer acquisition costs, net and gross-feller retention, and leapening budget cycles right now. I suspect that will face a little bit more scrutiny in 2025 and our banking partners do agree with that. And the final point that I'll mention right now, as we turn on the news every day, and it seems to be another conflict or regime that falls geopolitical uncertainty has emerged as a significant factor right now. And so I think maintaining a pragmatic view, our human makers certainly are, and survey respondents are right now. It is really important we have to focus more on fundamental performance metrics rather than just market sentiment. And we're gonna get to those here in just a second. So we always ask our bankers as well, what are some of the sub-sectors that are hottest in market right now, or most in Vogue? And this is a little bit fatty, but I kind of think it can be kind of interesting. So let's look first at some of the notable risers. We're seeing some interesting new entrants. This year, property technology has emerged in significant player. That makes sense, right? If you looked at the last couple of years, when inflation was running rampant, and the Fed, and other central banks around the world were ratcheting up interest rates, it would make sense that property technology software is maybe gonna have a harder time procuring new clients and maybe not viewed, at least during that time frame, quite as favorable as it is today. Similarly, and kind of interesting hospitality technology also has made a remarkable re-intrent versus last year. And next-gen commerce has moved up just a little bit. Next-gen commerce is kind of interesting because during the COVID years, we didn't shop and brick and mortars. We pulled forward years of growth in the e-commerce. Then we subsequently had a couple of years to where it was tough in e-commerce. But you look back now in the e-commerce landscape is getting a little bit more favorable as well. When you look over on the right right now, unsurprisingly infrastructure and security maintains the whole position, right? It's the most premium sector. And I think I haven't run the numbers today, but a couple of months ago, I suspect and you can check me on this. I suspect that the top companies still are in cybersecurity. The last time that I looked, top 10 companies were most valuable from an EV to AR level. Were security and they were commanding meaningful double-digit multiples. That means that if you're in security, your buyer set is able to pay a little bit more because they're valued more by the market. Now, as I think a little bit about this page right now, for those of you that are maybe not in a hot sector or in another sector, you can't really control that, right? But you can control a couple other things and it looks like my slides here are a little bit, or did not come through. Give me two seconds and I'm going to pull up another version right now. I want to walk through with this team right now. I'd like to walk through with you the premium multiples right now that actually or the metrics that actually matter for your business. And so let me let me pull that right back up in two seconds. And PC, while you're doing that, just a reminder to everyone, we wanna make the session interactive. And so if you have questions, please use the Q&A function at the bottom of your screen. And I'll make sure that we surface those questions for PC. And I am PC, what we're gonna be talking about is, is even within, you know, absent even some of the macro market dynamics that might be driving values given propensity to pay, et cetera, there are companies within subsectors that are not quote unquote commanding a premium value that are receiving premium value treatment. We're gonna help kind of elucidate one of the key drivers of that premium treatment. Is that right? That's absolutely right. And there's a couple of things that you can do. I'm pulling this right back up. Give me two seconds right here. I've got it right back up now. And we'll see if we can kick off. We got a couple of questions here. Yeah, that'd be great. And it might help. I think all these are related to so are the numbers in the prior slide which markets are hot, valuation multiples are relative to each other in terms of demand. I would say when we ask our bankers what are the top markets that are easiest to sell? Has nothing to do with valuation? Multiple has everything to do with if you're running a process for the business knowing nothing else that is in market right now. What which ones are the hottest for buyers right now? What is transacting in market today? It's probably well, thanks, VC. All right. As we think a little bit right now about shifting from subsectors over to metrics that matter, right? look and see what investors are actually prioritizing when they're evaluating SaaS businesses. What's particularly noteworthy on this chart right now, if you look at the orange that's 2024, if you look at the blue that's 2023, you're seeing a bit of consistency in what matters to investors right now, with I would argue an emphasis on balance performance metrics. So as we look at the spider diagram there on the right, we see the sustained focus in a couple of key areas. Growth rate remains absolutely crucial. Your burn rate and your EBITDA is very, very important in your next investor slash buyers evaluation framework. And what I think is kind of interesting right now is that gross and net retention continue to be absolutely fundamental. This is a persistent emphasis, and you can look and see there's a little bit of an uptick right now, according to our bankers, on this particular metric. And so the crucial takeaway right now for management teams and investors alike are really two important levers that you can pull. If you want to improve that metric, first and foremost, you've got to refine your ideal customer profile. It's not just about targeting, it's about understanding which customers drive the most value from the solution that you're offering and therefore are most likely to stick around, right? And so getting this right upstream has tremendous impacts downstream as it relates to retention. Second, I think doubling down on nurturing your existing relationships is particularly important, right? that has suggested investors value companies that can maintain strong relationships, which shows in your metrics right now, and that is just as important as your growth rate. And so this balanced approach to metrics tells us something very, very important. Investors aren't just looking for the high growth stories or the peer efficiency plays, but looking for businesses that can demonstrate sustainable profitable growth backed by those customer references. Those customer liations. And PC, if we go back to that prior slide for just a second here, I would imagine, and I probably know the answer to this, but it is not equitably weighted on the retention piece, equitably weighted between gross and net. The reality is if I had to guess, there is a disproportionate weighting being placed on gross retention. Is that accurate? I appreciate you bringing that up. And I suspect in 2025 when we run the survey, we are going to, I actually had a comment, consider we're going to split those out. If you look over on upsell downsell that's over to the right, That would more encompass your net retention, whereas in my mind, survey is, and I had one actually respond on this point, hey, when I say gross slash net retention, I mean gross retention, right? And that's essentially the leaky bucket. How leaky is your bucket? Yeah. And we'll walk through a couple of different profiles on that here in just a second, but you're absolutely right. That was really my second question. That's what is king. Awesome. Now as we get to the next slide, This is actually my favorite part of the survey right now. It's my favorite exercise. I'd like to dive into what I call the SAS personality profiles. I, this is silly, but I think of it as my or Brings, but for software companies, if you will. And so every year, we have our banking partners evaluate these different operating profiles, knowing nothing else about the business. And they're quite colorful characters. So let me walk you through a couple of these, and then we'll look and see what the EV to ARR ratios actually are. So first up, number one, you've got the Rocketburner. Rose, the business is growing at a blistering 100% year over your growth rate with about a $5 million annual burn. I would describe this persona as your classic move fast of ratings company. This company is this person, if you will, is drinking the premium fuel and lighting it on fire, but they're also lapping the competition. Second, number two, if you move to the right, is the power balance. This is the Zen Master of SaaS, growing at a healthy, respectable, even impressive 60% while maintaining a break even EBITDA. They seem to find the sweet spot between growth and efficiency that many aspire to, but few achieve. If you go down to the bottom line, this is the profit cruiser. Profit cruiser is growing at 35% year over year with 10% even margins. I like to think of this as the steady any of the group, right? They're not trying to win any speed records, but they're definitely making money while they travel. And this one, you're going to be surprised that this profile is maybe a little bit more consistent in how it's viewed in the market across other factors than the rest. Finally, you've got the slow burner and that is a 25% growth. It's 4 million burn. They're taking the scenic route to success. The burn in cash, you're not quite hitting the growth metrics that might justify a premium multiple. I would say it's like you're driving with one foot on the gas here and one on the brake. And this one I want to bring up. This is where some folks can find themselves. And I think that this is a dangerous place to be. Think of it as the middle child of the software profiles, right? And sorry for middle children who are on here without a little bit of ink and gunk. You're going to be punished in market. And then finally, we've got the star performer number five, right? And it's 100% growth, 20% even margins. This is your unicorn profile. And this is one that just makes investors eyes light up. You're to find physics, essentially. The next slide, I want to show how the market actually values these different personas based upon what our leading investment bankers or survey respondents have actually allowed. Okay, so now if we look at the cast the characters, there's some fascinating patterns. If we look at these two businesses through two different lenses of retention. So on the top chart or the middle chart really, you've got this $50 million ARR businesses. You're assuming 85% growth retention, 100% net retention, here's how the market views them. Well, the star performer who we discussed, profile number five, is clearly the development of the ball, with 88% nearly 90% of respondents say you'd command a 10 plus plus multiple even in this market. That makes sense, right? 100% growth and 20% even a margins is kind of finding a unicorn that also prints money. The next profile that I draw you to is the rocket burner. That's profile number one, right? That's the hundred percent year over your growth and five five million annual burn. It's interesting is that respondents cluster right around eight to ten X on multiples. In the market saying we like your growth but we're not paying a premium for the burn rate. Now the power balance is one that I would argue is something that if you're in a that position to grow really, really fast or you know, show a break even kind of profile. It's just fascinating distribution across higher multiples. The market really appreciates the balance that this profile drives. Again, that's profile number two between growth and profitability. But what happens if we drop or lower retention metrics? So if we take the top little charts with 85% to 90% growth retention, You drop that to 75% gross retention. At 80% net retention, it's like gravity kicks in and drags down the multiple that you can amend in market. The rocket burner, right? Remember, this is a great profile drops to mostly 6 to 7x, EV to ARR multiples of slow burner, which is profile 4 gets stuck in what I call the low growth desert, right? If you're driving low growth, you're burning and you don't have retention right now, you're stock it four to five acts according to our survey as and even our star performer sees a dramatic compression in the multiples. So what is the key takeaway from this chart right now and you should email me after and what we're going to we're going to publish these results. But the market sending us a clear message in 2024 retention and to some gets earlier question of point gross retention is keen. You can grow like a rocket ship but if you're leaking customers your leaking bucket is significant, the market enthusiasm cools just about regardless of what else you're doing. So it's again, it's not about how fast you can acquire your customers, it's about building a business that can keep them. Now let's just put that in the context. We'll go back to the last slide. What's interesting is that if we look at it, it looks like the broad, on this huge generalization, it looks like like it's as significant as a 30% discount based on just that that retention profile. Just put that in context. If you're a $15 million a day or business, if you were to otherwise command a 10x because you're going 100% profitably, you're looking at 50 million plus of enterprise value contraction as a result of just 10 point, a 10 point movement in retention profile. Is that a fair kind of fair takeaway? PC on that? or can that be more successful? Absolutely correct. Absolutely correct. And that difference in delta, and we ought to throw this in what we actually publish, I can publish these charts from 2023 is much more significant than it was last year, which is interesting. M&A volume is picking up right now, assassin thuzi-azum is picking up in M&A market. Yet retention has seemed to be this year just over and over again. You can ask the question 100 different ways you're gonna get the same answer. It's important and it's more important right now than it was a year ago. Yeah. Okay, so kind of rounding out the survey, a couple more slides right now. We'll talk about processes here. And we'll talk about some recommendations that our bankers had for our entrepreneurs right now. But how do you play out in market? Well, timing is everything. Right now, our bankers overwhelmingly are clear. The sweet spot and hiring an intermediary to sell your business is three to four months or three to five months before a launch. I will argue with you that should not be the first time that you've met Mr. and Mrs. Banker who is going to rep your business and sell it, but that is the time in which you should formally retain them. He give you enough runway to prepare your materials or find your story and build upon the thoughtful list of buyers you put together and hopefully engaged with without losing momentum. Speaking of buyers, I would tell you that we are seeing a bit of a barbell market and this really played out in some of the qualitative responses that we had from our bankers in terms of interest levels from buyers. For quality assets, it's quite encouraging that with quality assets, you can expect to generate in a process when you're hiring a banker by plus offers for strong businesses. That's significant firepower competing for the best assets. Here's where it gets interesting. There is a clear flight to quality that's happening and the market has been remarkably satisfied according to our bankers. A plus assets are drawing the significant crowds. Strong businesses continue to attract healthy competition, But our lower quality assets are facing a much more challenging environment. The one thing that's notable about strategic buyers right now is that they're very much in the market, but they're selective. They're focusing on their top strategic priorities rather than the broader participation as we saw in 2021. It's a quality over quantity in their approach. Now, there's finally kind of an interesting point on deal certainty. And so from one to five, we asked our makers, or do you have confidence that folks will close, your buyers will close on terms with or similar to what they commit to in an LLI. And you know, 37%, the answer is generally yes. The bankers obviously caveated, that is why you hire us is to keep people honest. I thought that was kind of interesting when we surveyed folks. So last two slides on the survey. So what are key recommendations you'd give to a software entrepreneur. We asked this question. And there's three real pillars, right? First is operational excellence, second is strategic preparation, and then there's a couple tactical recommendations. So operational excellence is fundamental. That means basically bankers say, we're looking for specific measurable thresholds, 30 to 40% growth rate sustained over a period of time. I saw in the comments, you know, four quarters is right. Even a margins is breaking even to even a plus. folks recommended and 90% plus gross retention. But here's the key insight. It's not just about hitting those numbers. It's demonstrating you can balance that growth and profitability in a sustainable way over a demonstrated period of time, over a couple of quarters before you go out. That was a recommendation from our folks. Second, strategic preparation needs to start now, not when you're ready to sell. This means you need to start building meaningful relationships according to our respondents with potential buyers while before any formal process begins. You need to develop what we call a strategic buyer thesis. Essentially, why would your business be valuable to specific acquires? How do you fit into their portfolio and growth strategy? Do you know, do you have any partnership? And we'll get to that here in just a second. And then some tactical recommendations that we had from bankers were pretty interesting. It was what, you know, diversify your customer base. Concentration seems to be something that you'll have to overcome, right? In a process, and that makes sense. Reduced dependency on key partners or customers look for opportunity to broaden your platform through and J.S.A.P. products. I thought that that was interesting that those three things were identified as value drivers in M&A processes and pleased to share that with you. And then the final point too on this point is like, well, you have to tell a compelling story about your next stage of growth. People aren't buying what you have today and the history of what you've done. The history for what got you here is only valuable if you can use that to demonstrate where you're going, Remember, if you take on growth capital, your next buyer, if it's a private equity entity, wants to three acts, whatever your next pretty much evaluation is, right? That's important to that group. So your story is important. Your buyer is investing in what you can become, which is rooted in your historical and the actual numbers that you can justify based on that historical past. That means developing a credible narrative about expansion opportunities and demonstrating you can maintain strong unit economics and customer attention. Bottom line here, right, excellence in operations, strategic position, and also stay in touch with your buyers. That's what drives premium valuations across market cycles. Now, our bankers as well did identify a couple of key value killers in a sell process. Then what not to do playbook, if you will? What's the number one process killer? It's missing or poorly communicating financial targets. Let me be really, really clear. Our bankers were unanimous in saying, high confidence in your near term forecast is absolutely crucial. We consistently see, and we've seen this happen on a couple of deals this year, then do rail when companies can't demonstrate visibility into the revenue growth and retention metrics. There's any risk to performance. The advice is simple, you need to delay the process and get your house in order. There's several other operational flags that can hinder value. unexpected customer turn as a huge warning sign, especially poor, gross dollar retention. High cash burn rates just don't hunt. That dog doesn't hunt in this market unless there's a clear path to efficiency going forward. And poorly timed organizational changes. I think this is something that was flying as well, particularly changing sales leadership during a process. Immediately raises questions about go-to-market stability. We're also seeing other things as well that I'll call out as well entrepreneurs. We had some bankers that said entrepreneurs occasionally will appear a little bit overconfident on their M&A expertise. And the advice that we had was run your business, hit your numbers, and we'll take care of facilitating a process so that that was kind of interesting. Another concerning behavior pattern is making unrealistic valuation demands to your acquire based upon outdated market conditions. You should not, according to our bankers, go out and tell your acquire what you expect to receive in terms of evaluation market. The reason for this is really, really simple. If you say a number that's too low, you didn't secure the highest value. If you say a number that's too high, you might scare your banker away. That's an area where you need to lean on your investors, you need to lean on your investment banker on comms. And I would just tell you to the strategic mistakes that can also be a little bit damaging or making fundamental business model shifts or communicating that we're gonna be this one day when you don't have any revenue to show that. Artificial revenue inflation through temporary price increases, was also flagged as something that folks don't like, and then implementing any kind of reduction and for staring the process almost always backfires. So what was the key takeaway that folks said, and number of words, focus on your steady execution, that's really important. And let your advisors manage the sale process while you maintain clear visibility and your performance and articulate your clear and compelling vision for the future growth that extends beyond the current year metrics. Remember, buyers are investing in your future potential. They're not just investing in your current performance or the history that got you here. Okay, that was a mouthful right now. And in the next 10 minutes, we'll finish this up. We'd love to have it a Q&A, but what is strategic development? What is this phrase that you hear investors and bankers chat about? How do you do it? And why does it actually matter? Well, I would argue that strategic development is any activity long term that drives buyer interest and motivation in buying your business, right? And so the three principles is I think about should you develop that are discipline, discerning, and discrete. You have to be disciplined with strategic developments, right? You have to dedicate time based upon your stage and meter that appropriately in the life cycle of your business. I've got three different kids. I've got a five year old, a nearly three year old, and a one year old. And I'm working with my five year old and I'm working with my three year old on a couple of things. But my five year old is reading and with my three year old, it is understanding alphabet letters and the sounds that they make. And I will tell you if I were to show up right now and say, okay, need you to learn how to read a book. Let's go read Charlotte's web. We're gonna get there tomorrow. Maybe next week, I'll give you the next week. It's not gonna work. But if I work over the course of a couple of quarters a couple of years, I can get her of the time she's in first grade, reading Charlotte's web and beyond. What is the difference? I put 10 to 15 minutes in a day, and we go through a passage a day, and we learn some new letters, and we say some words. Same thing with my other daughter. I want you to think a little bit about strategic development, even if you're five million in ARR right now as being disciplined. I have to show up to the gym if I want to get big to use a gym analogy. You need to be discerning as well. Who are you actually going to chat with in the broader capital market landscape and strategic landscape, and who are you not? Let me give you an example here right now. Getting an inbound from a very junior resource whose job is to be a call center agent and try to pump you for information, that might not be the best person to spend time with, but coming to Peak Span and asking to get connected to a senior field maker that's on that team that sits in a partner level meeting time to time up, that's probably a good use of your time and you should think about doing that once a quarter, at least. I also think you need to be discreet and proper communications are important. We elaborated on this a little bit earlier, but communicating unrealistic valuation expectations to your buyer, that's silly. Going out and saying, I'm going to be at this AR level, when you know there's not a snowball's chance and help to do that, excuse me on this front, that's something that's a little bit tough as well. Every time you tell somebody, I'm going to reach this level, or I'm gonna grow to that level, they hold you to it, it is logged in the CRM, and they will judge you against that. So pulling together activities right now that are just pulling the starting discreet is really important. Now, finishing up really quick is a software buyer. As a software business, you've got a couple of different options. And if you go back once I just a couple of thoughts, one is don't underestimate Mary. She's a rock star. And she's going to surprise you. I think just a couple of points that I want to underscore here is, and I'm sure you'll immediately agree with all these, asking a product or business unit leader to underwrite a quarter of a billion half a billion dollar acquisition is career suicide. No one's gonna do that off of a sim that they receive and where IOWIs or IOWIs are due two weeks later. And so I think the important piece here is that it doesn't need to be command a significant portion of your time, but think about this as like going to the gym, brushing your teeth. I think dedicating a bit of your time to CEO where you're being asked to juggle a ton of different kind of priorities and responsibilities is incredibly important. And what I've got in our CEOs, two of the CEOs that I work with is that it's not about breadth, it's about depth. And so what are the 20% of relationships that are gonna drive 80% of activity or the right activity? And so for those individuals, I think it's an awesome opportunity for you to kind of pound your chest and talk about how cool all the amazing progress you've made. And so I think a lot of those situations, investing that time over a period, over a long period of time, I think one helps drive high likelihood strategic interest, the ability to collaborate with that strategic partner, whether it's an investment firm or a strategic group around building the combined thesis for what those two businesses look like together and empowering them to evangelize that across their leadership team. And two is I think just in this case working with if you're a peace band for a company working with PC and in terms of saying, hey, if I were to dedicate a couple of hours from month having these conversations. What are the best groups for me to dedicate that time towards right and I find the track watch for brews that go super crazy and are having hundreds of conversation not a great use of time because that distracts away from operations and folks that are not having any conversations at all and I think it's about finding that Goldilocks model. And so I just wanted to just underscore that because I think it's not about breadth that's about depth and just kind of focusing the calories and it doesn't have to be a lot. It doesn't, that's right, it doesn't have to be a lot, but it has to be something. And, and, and, and you scale, we'll go through a timeline here in just a little bit of just some, some high level recommendations. As a software buyer, software business, you're going to have two different buyers. You're going to go two different paths. One, you're going to be purchased by a private equity entity. Either you're either going to sell to a growth firm, write a portion. or majority, and be a platform investment, or you're going to be an add-on to another private company that's private equity backed. The other option is strategic straight now. And so I would tell you one of the coolest developments to use that phrase right now in our industry is the emergence of private equities in the new cowboy in town. If we were to look back a decade ago, a little over a decade ago, a private equity only drove 4% of sales. It was very bad if private equity was buying your business. Something went wrong. You were in that slow, slow burner. You were taking the scenic route, if you will, to an exit. Today, it's a great thing if private equity is around. Now, if we look at both strategic and private equity, there's a couple of different things that characterize both. A strategic that buys you is going to have a longer of e-vow cycle, integration cycle. And I can certainly tell you that I purchased three businesses at one of our portfolio companies. Two and a half years ago, that company has not purchased another software business at that point. The reason that I point that out is because they're integrating across so and they're making that acquisition actually work. That same thing happens with your public acquires as well. They go in cycles. They'll go and they'll buy and then they'll integrate over a long period of time. And so if your company lifecycle doesn't necessarily line up to their timeline, it's very hard to influence. But there are things that you can do. You can become partners. You can establish commercial agreements and start showing that there's cross-sell opportunities between your system and another. Knowing a lot of individuals in the buying committee as a strategic is very, very important. It's not just the corporate development individual who you've interacted with or the partnerships individual. You need somebody in product, somebody in engineering, somebody in customer success, somebody in sales that all sign up and say, this is something that we actually want to do. To long road, it means that you need to be in touch early and you need to be in touch often with your strategics. Private equity is kind of interesting. It's the newer entity and it's always open. What's great about private equity is private equity These are the acquisitions or investments that we've made. Here's some PRs. Private equity also hires a workforce that goes out and tries to find you. They publish what they're interested in and the like. And so what's important with private equity is getting to know the senior dealmaker that's on that team and in that vertical that's interested in your business over time. I'll tell you every week we have a partner's meeting at Peakspan and firm wide meeting. And our partners here and our deal leads will go through short-term, medium-term, long-term pipeline and discuss how they are earning partner of trust with their business. You want to be on that list and you want to not be fly by night, but you want to have developed an influenceable relationship with that senior private equity group so that you have a bit of a long-term mindset with that individual and they understand the wins that you've had and have an opportunity to help you out with things that matter to you. We help with that that relationship building at the senior level. What are other pragmatic ways that you can, that you can last five minutes here and we'll open up for questions that you can prepare for your exit? Well, I wanna walk through a practical roadmap of that right now, and I wanna work backwards from your target liquidity event. I would refer to this slide right here is what I call by winning by design in M&A, starting at the very, very early stage, more than let's call it 24 to 36 months out in the late year proper foundation. Create a compelling management presentation that tells your story. Develop a thoughtful list of likely acquires both strategic and financial and implement and start tracking KPIs that matter for your business. It's about building your narrative and your story with data. As you move into the 24-month horizon, I like to call this the relationship building phase. You start dialing in your annual and your quarterly projections, which need to be rock solid. You begin your regular conversations with your potential acquires and PE firms, think quarterly or buy annual check ins and you make introductions, you start having introductions and we help with this to the top investment bankers that are in your space. You're not hiring them yet. You're building relationships, you're testing your story and you're narrative. And you're also giving them data that they can go trade and create a little bit of buzz in market. Because they are meeting very, very frequently with your likely acquires. At the 12 month mark, we enter the acceleration phase. Your conversations with likely acquires should pick up, with some light signaling about potential interest and timing in the light. You start having your targeted bake offs or pitches as needed and we help with that. We help you identify the banks well before we help you. We help with an agenda and then we help negotiate an engagement letter based upon what is market, what isn't market. What you secured your banker relationship, you want your formal process, you might have detailed fire side chats. And the key to success here is that successful exits don't happen. They're methodically planned and they're executed over time. And so early stage builds, like each stage here, builds upon the previous one, and it creates a little bit of momentum toward your liquidity effect. A couple other points right here, I won't belabor this, but with your strategic list, is you're preparing that roster of likely acquires. Who are your strategics, right? Who are the possible buyers? What partnerships do you have? What partnerships do you need to have? Do you have named business unit contacts where you are actually in contact or could get in contact, Peach Nink can help with this? Who are the private equity entities? Who's active in the space? If you're an email marketing group, who is the, I think that targets investor? Who was Clavios investor? Who are you also getting in balance from? Even if you're not gonna pick up the call because you don't have time and it's a junior resource, it's literally going to pump you for information. Where is that coming from? Who has a thesis in the space? Who do your investors? Who do speak spam thing highly of? And on the investment bank or roster, right? Who do you actually have relationships with? Conferences are great for investment bank, for you to attend, because you get to pull together a large set of financial buyers that might not be on this list and this list can dynamically update. You start thinking a little about when have you received your last market briefing or given an update on your business. That's the roster piece. On your management presentation, and this is more for groups that are on the earlier side, maybe just receiving an investment for the peak standpoint follow-up companies, start thinking about your management presentation. Supercacilly, you should answer all the questions that are here in about 20 slides. It's not a numbers piece. It's just the beginning of your narrative that you're going to start selling in market if you want. Essentially it's blown down to what is the problem that's in market. How do we solve it? What kind of flux do we have with our vanity stats? Who are our customers? How do we earn them? How do we retain them? How big is my market? Why do you care? That's management presentation. And then finally, and this is going to be the part that I think was consternation. And I've operated before because it takes a lot of time to pull this, but this should be something that you start aspiring to. Your data room, as you get within 24 months before an exit, should be pulled together quarterly and ready to go. We pulled last night a couple of our entrepreneurs who had a successful exit and one in particular that received a premium multiple, and just said when we were asking, what would you have done differently if you could go back and do it again? It said, I would have invested and built my deal-ready data room way before I thought I needed to. And so when you think about data room materials, you can pull your articles of of incorporation, your cap table. That's pretty simple. You should have a monthly recurring waterfall that's pulled together, monthly financials that are closed on the 15th of the month. That's important, updated projections that are accurate. And you have some level fidelity that you can hit. And the KPIs and supporting materials on those KPIs that matter for your business. And there's a couple other things that are right here. I have a checklist here, as I think a little bit about, I'm a big checklist guy. And I think something that's a big checklist guy as well. But the checklist for founders right now is really simple. Do I have a management presentation that's relatively ready? Can I do it as my investor looked at it? As my management team looked at it, do I like it? Is it ready to go? If somebody wanted to share it, what's my financial readiness score right now? What am I doing this quarter to next quarter to increase my financial readiness? Like can I pull, can I close the books by the 15th of each month? Can I produce reasonable projections or not? If I can't, what do I need to do to fix that? We have outsourced strategic finance advisors that we can get to help you on that. We can help you do that as well. But that's something that's really important. Who am I speaking with each quarter, both on the P.E. side and the strategic side? What bankers do I actually know that are out in this case? And I think just roughly to keep yourself honest, that I spend a couple hours this quarter on this. I spend two to three hours a month on this or no. That is important in my mind to kind of keep you grounded on strategic development. elevate that element of the business to one that's just as important as the product that you're creating and the sales engine that you're actually utilizing to deliver that. Look, I've really appreciated the time of the day. We have about 11 minutes before the top of the hour for questions. One thing that I would like to, what would offer and invite you to do, please shoot me an email if you've got any questions. Yeah, even if you're not a peak spam portfolio partner. I would love to chat with you about your business right now, how I think a little bit about this. I've worked at Goldman on the South Side, I've worked over it. It's CloudBeds, buying businesses, I've worked as an investor here, and now I work on helping new secure liquidity events. So I can talk to you a little bit about the nuances of your business against the backdrop of the framework that I just laid out. And so I would absolutely welcome some conversations on that front. But right now, I'd love to hear a couple of a question. Awesome. First of all, most PCI want to say stellar job. Incredibly insightful presentation and I'll under Burke, I think something that has been just kind of forward to our ethos, which is how do we drive predictability and success? And what you've kind of mechanized in terms of this playbook is exactly the strategy that our portfolio partners employ. Many are going to be virtually not in their heads as they kind of reflect on the content and discussion from today, but incredibly powerful discussion. So we've got a couple of questions here for the audience. So first being, how do you think about opening up non-MNA avenues first? Doing joint go-to-market, making them a buyer first. I'll let you answer and I'll share an update as well. Yeah, I think it's probably the only way to do it. Most M&A groups on the strategic side at least have a rule. I know ProCore is this way. The ProCore corporate development had sits in Austin. And so I meet with her relatively often. And she just says it as bluntly as possible. I will not buy a business final partner with them. I had that buy as soon as it comments too. And the reason is very simple. I wanted to walk over to my partnership team, my implementation team, and I wanted to look at the data that we were pushing through our partners. And I'll be honest with you, when we bought a couple of businesses, if we got really interested in a subsector, we would look at who we were partnered with first, who we weren't partnered with, and we would do off-reference diligence request, because I know what customer has implemented both of those. And so I would, I call it probably 100 folks we were doing one of our acquisitions across three different platforms. And I figured out what's the best platform? What does my sales team like to sell? What does products say about this? And so I would say opening up like non-MNA discussions, like that's honestly the first step that's there. And when I think about a pragmatic way to spend your time, even if it's a little hard to say, I know I need to do something that's two years down the line, but I'm busy right now. Reframe that in your head to actually I need a new partnership opportunity and I need to drag revenue through a, you know, acquire an adjacent product that's over here on the site. Because honestly, somebody's gonna look at that data and if you show success with the partner, you're gonna get some looks on the M&A. That's the first step in my mind. I totally agree and I think the realities, I wouldn't, you know, for, if I look at the exits we've seen across portfolio, I think there's several examples where the acquisition was inspired or catalyzed through a go-to-market partnership, inference being a great example where we partnered with 5.9 and we were powering their entire self-service portfolio. And ended up transacting at kind of the height of the 2020-2021 market environment and transcended at a discount to what 5.9 was trading at but it was an exceptional outcome for the team. So I would say I think the points I would call out is it's incredibly additive. I think it is amazing to de-risk the combined product thesis. I think it could supercharge near-term distribution and go to market, which is amazing. And I think importantly, if you are in that early stage of the scale of journey, where you've got great forward market opportunity, great ambitions, it gives you opportunity, it gives you time to defer that discussion, that decision. And I think when it comes to time and you've proven out that thesis, it is contributing meaningful revenue. The combined thesis and positioning is as really strategic, differentiated in market. I think it also empowers you to create scarcity value, right? So when you are working with PC in terms of now getting to that kind of inflection point of deciding on the Neopolitan ice cream, do we want a full sale? Do we want a partial sale? Continue to drive value? Do we want to growth financing? I think you now put yourself in an amazing position to drive a conversation around premium view of value given the scarcity value that you proven out over the last several years, right? Another question here for you PC is, and I don't know if if we serve this in the data, but are we seeing any in the data, any difference in valuation multiples between strategic and sponsors? That's interesting. I didn't ask that question, but that is one that we're gonna ask, we're gonna add in 2025. Anik Doetle, I will tell you there's not a difference. Used to, you would see the strategic, it would pay a premium, whereas private equity wouldn't. I'll give you a couple of anecdotes right now. In 2021 and 2022, You might see a momentum, momentum minority group pay a little bit more, but typically private equity is going to stay very disciplined. And they're going to pay the multiple essentially that they can pay. The most they can pay based upon how likely are we to hit our 3x cash and cash break point. And so I would say there's not a ton of room unless there's a competitive process with private equity. With strategic, you can sometimes see the premium and I did see this anecdotally in the data. We didn't ask the question. The problem with strategic right now is they're being very selective and so it's a little bit more of a Feaster Fam and kind of situation if you're gonna go and secure a premium strategic multiple. But that's a difference, right? Then 10 years ago, 10 years ago, it was always the strategic that would pay higher. Super helpful. a few more questions here PC. So for strategic buyers, as you think about awareness building, which personas should you get in touch with? How would you advise they make companies, CEOs, maintain those relationships in case you don't have an existing business relationship? Well, if you are a peak-span portfolio company, I and my king do that for you. So we maintain a list of about 120 different private equity groups, I'd say they're 20 that we really, really aspire to work with. we have worked with. The same thing on the strategic development side. There's about three, we ran this, we ran this math a year ago, and I need to look at it again, but there's, there's about 350, 350, 180 different strategic that will pay over $100 million or have in the last couple of years for a software asset, but the vast majority of those will pay only one time. So what we did as we went through and we looked at the top 150 most relevant 150 different criteria that relationships with those. But the onset of our investment day one will pull together alongside the deal team, your list of strategic will then work with you on that and will start augmenting over the first year of the investment. What that list actually looks like and me and my team, we reach out to those individuals and when you're ready to chat with them, you chat with them. Now, there is a couple, there are a couple of exceptions to that general rule. I would tell you if there are partnership opportunities, there's sometimes can be a partnership individual that you're associated with. I would tell you with the partnership individual, it's very important for the CEO and whoever's on your team that's going to actually see that partnership through to be on the first couple of calls. You're going to naturally be introduced to the relevant product individuals and the relevant sales team individuals as well. Keeping a roster of those individuals, keeping them warm, everyone's not saying happy Thanksgiving, everyone's in a while, giving them an update when you've had a real big sales win. That's the way in which you stay in touch with those folks. It's relationship building, just like, you should probably know their kids names, right? Like it's on a personal level with somebody at a company. Super helpful. And PC, more of a comment, but I think a great reinforcement of what we're talking about here. This is from an audience member who was head of partnerships and alliances for a multi-billion dollar revenue business and the software. So your comment is, when I talk to HRL people leaders, they are beyond confused by the market. and this is probably applies to any functional leader at some of a potential acquires. Too many companies for them to make sense up. So they are going back to the larger vendor strategies and ask them to provide more solutions, puts even more emphasis on strategic development to run the leaders. Just a great CTA for a lot of the founders online. And then another question here is, from your perspective, should you always be working with an investment banker, even if you have credible and bound interest? Oh, that's a great question. So I'm going to give you a little religion here and evangelize my perspective on this. You will know that I might not be right, but I'm not confused. I think investment bankers are absolutely fantastic. They get a bad rap. I heard people call them like real estate agents and this and that. I think it's a little rude. I use real estate agent and I love them and I also use bankers and I love bankers. I think bankers are absolutely helpful in keeping people honest. Look, there's process. First and foremost, when you are a company, and I don't care if you're five million an era or 20 to 30 million an era, you're going to be busy pulling customer contracts and doing like the later stage, not the lightweight diligence model that I pulled together, but literally answering 300 questions and requests. I think a banker is really helpful on, we're not doing that. We are doing this and here's why I've worked with this buyer before. I also think a banker knows that they can kind of be a referee in the process. And this isn't just driving interest initially. This is after driving interest, after you've driven interest, after you have an LLI keeping people honest. They're the individual that it's weird if the founder stomps their hand and say, I will not go with you if you change this. If you move from the LLI, but your banker can do that. your banker can do that because it says, hey dude, I have, I got two or three other LLIs and buyers that are here in the wings. And oh, by the way, if you get a retrained when there's a banker, the whole bank knows about that. Like all the MDs know that there was a retrainer and they flag and say this strategic or this private equity firm was actually a little unethical and that they put the best in final forward and then they started chipping away at that. I think a banker is really, really helpful in that. They know the market, they know the market really well. They can leak salient details importantly about your business. Like, oh, wow, this doesn't this, you know, could could transact at the end of 2026. They can drive interest on the on the background, but most importantly, they can take that interest in the form of an L.O.I. and actually get you all the way through to the end. So I'm hugely, hugely a fan of utilizing investment makers. Yeah. And teasing what I would add is this just proportionate value and specialization, right? And I think these are the folks that wake up every single day. And this is all that they do. And so I think even in situations, If you think about a barbell to I have inbound interests, which is always an amazing event in domino to analyze the strategic process. And I'm starting to scratch, but we're motivated to transact. I think even in that situation, your banking or advisory partner can be instrumental in terms of providing operational support. Like there's a lot of work that goes into a, and especially with the strategic post-L-O-I diligence process. PC is like probably chuckling a little bit because he was the reason behind some of that in their earlier life, I thought that's, but there's a lot of work. And so having won the support and the exercise at a hands is always very helpful. And then too, as I think in most situations, if you have vendor A reaching out, there is a, you know, maybe a chance that you don't have great connectivity with the other three or four vendors in that market. And the right banking partner can get you access to the right decision makers at the right level of that conversation to catalyze that competitive interest, which is obviously very helpful. And then the third thing I just call out is for companies that are exploring what we call a dual track process. Right? Yes. You want to talk about that? I think that could also be very helpful in having an advisory partner there. There are oftentimes where we, we don't know exactly what we want to do. We want to go test and that's collectively the board, peak span, other investors on the board, and also the entrepreneur, like I might want to do a growth round. I might want to sell the business. Bankers are very, very helpful in catalyzing answers on what is the best outcome that's here. But yes, can you do a growth round yourself? Can you sell your business on your own? 100% that you can't? Are the fees obnoxious? Yeah, they are. So we should work together on lowering those to a market or below market level, right? That's what we do here. But ultimately, the question that you're trying to get to, while you're running a business, while you're trying to fix problems, while you're trying to create solutions, while you're trying to continue to grow, is what is the best outcome for this business? And a banker can help you explore interest. And that is their job, like some kind of friendship. Awesome. I think that's it. I know we're over time PC. Thank you so much, my dear friend. It's a, I think one of the happiest moments I had at peak span is when you came back two years ago, but excited by the work that you're doing. to be back. It's great to be back and it's great to help folks and I really do mean it. Please reach out because I'd love to speak with you on an individual level and we can do it for the holidays after the holidays. It'd be great. I'd love to be able to help you and obviously we're doing that with the portfolio. I would love to do that with folks that are thinking about peak span and why is this important to Nellike? And there's a lot of prospects there on the line as well. Amazing. Thank you, good PC. Think you're ready for joining, and we'll see you on our next Mass class next week. But we don't connect and wishing everybody a very happy holidays in advance. Thank you.