 I will all kick things off everyone and introduce Scott. For those of you who don't know, Pete Spans Master Class series, I'm Jack Freeman. We're going to be talking about channel partnerships in this master class. We've gone to know Scott Gardner over the last, I'd say like five years, Scott led child partnerships, most other things at the coming called Ecwid, who we partnered with in 2020 and scaled that business to eight figures very quickly across hundreds of child partners, distribution, technology, white label. You name it, Scott can speak to it and using me often through some of his best practices today in this presentation just logistically. If you have any questions feel free to put them in the chat, I'll be monitoring that and can interrupt Scott or we can catch up on questions kind of after each segment or after the whole presentation. This will be reported so you'll be able to access it on our website and any follow-ups Scott is happy to chat so you can provide his email or weekend. Without further ado, I'm going to go off video and leave the center stage to use God. Thank you so much for doing this for SuperPon. Awesome. Yeah, thanks a lot, Jack. Thanks for having me. And yeah, I'm definitely excited to be here. Partnerships is a subject I'm passionate about and I've been involved in for the last 12 years or so. And like Jack said, we had a great partnership with the peak span team at at Ecwid and And over that time, we were able to build a tremendous partner program, not just channel partners, but certainly the channel partners were the massive growth driver for us. And so I'm excited to share with you about what we did, certainly an equate, but also just in the love of the principles I've seen over the years about what makes a world-class channel partner program. So just a quick moment about me. Again, I am Chief of Partner Officer at the Ecwid. Now by light speed, we were acquired almost exactly a year ago. And the business is still growing strong as is our partner ecosystem. Before that, I was at Symantec running SaaS partnerships, that sort of as are transitioning into a way from enterprise licensing models to to SAS. It was a very interesting a fun time. And from that journey, I came aboard from an acquisition from a company called Live Office, who's semantic acquired. Both those cases actually, those were white label partners, semantic white label live office and light speed through one of their acquisitions. Previous acquisition shopkeep was white labeling us And so both those partnerships that turned out into very strategic acquisition. So interesting seeing that journey. And before that, is that Boeing? Nothing to do with the channel, but just still seeing the complexity of sales and different routes to market was pretty interesting. So hop again, I just want to call it wide partnerships and it's sort of a rhetorical question, of course. But something I think that's really important to level set on. I think everyone has different understandings and beliefs about partnerships and the value they do or they don't bring. And certainly all partnerships or any business decision has trade-offs, right? There's ups and there's downs. But I'm a firm believer that the benefits outweigh the negatives with partnerships. And I just want to share a little bit about why that is. So it's maybe locally shared, this quote I feel pops up the time to time, but I think it's very apropos for partnerships and very sort of the driving thesis for me is if you wanna go fast, go alone and it's true, you can enter it very quickly with your own direct sales to your own product, whatever that is. But if you wanna go far, you go together. And again, not saying, you know, there's not tremendous companies that do things without partnerships. But I think as you grow and scale, just continuing to get reached to go further is really only possible with great partners. And let's talk a little bit about why that is. So I think there's a great version of server-on partnerships. Again, these are probably fairly obvious to you. So I'll try to move quickly because these, again, should register very easily. But again, the biggest thing with partnerships, especially channel partnerships, is they help accelerate growth. So by working with so many different parties, they can be a force multiplier for your sales marketing teams, allowing your marketing dollars, your sales dollars, everything else to go further. Of course, this can help lower your own costs and make your team more efficient. And so, in fact, even looking at our business at Ecwid, there was a huge multiple on efficiencies and profitability of our partner business versus our direct business. And our our drug business was still very, very healthy. This is something that certainly builds over time, and again, it's a virtuous circle that continues to grow. But once you have a very successful and established partner program, it's a huge boost for both top-line growth as well as bottom line efficiencies. This of course is because you're able to expand your reach. You know, I think whether you're entering new markets, you're trying to reach customers that might not be profitable for you to go after or new segments of users. You can lean on a partnership and their experience and expertise in a certain area to help drive your success. You don't have to solve everything. You don't have to spend every marketing dollar going after that one customer, niche customer. Partners can help do this for you. And a big part of way this can be done is through different differentiation. So you can help your partners solve customers problems better. I think, you know, obviously there's so many solutions out there and partners are able to help put things together in ways that, you know, maybe we can't do on a standalone solution. A good example of that was at Ecwid, we were an e-commerce platform. Our strength was really in building a great engine for buying online for merchants. But we didn't have the entire ecosystem of everything for a web presence, everything for a point of sale. And so trying to build these out over time wasn't part of our strategy. But by working together and working with partners, partners were able to bring the solutions together and have a complete comprehensive solution. So some of the partners we worked with were competing with folks like Shopify or Square. And again, they were a point of sale platform, but they didn't have maybe the e-commerce piece. And so by working together, they were able to stitch those solutions together and have a better solution for the customer, something that was comprehensive and could compete with those giants I mentioned before. Further, as this develops, you start increasing your brand awareness your brand value. I think your partners really will help amplify your market presence. Obviously, every time they talk about you, they're selling you in the marketplace, that's increasing pressure and usually for free, and it's validating social proof. I think this also can matter significantly in your journey, especially when you're small, as you're trying to prove credibility in the marketplace for why people should work with you and validate who you are. As people start seeing that, oh, this is a major player, they're integrating with this company or that key platform, it starts to build credibility in who you are as a company. And in turn, obviously, that helps your brand, that helps your own direct sales even. Maybe they, a prospect has seen you through a partner's advertising where they saw you on a site list somewhere as being part of an ecosystem. But maybe they've come to you now for the direct sale. Again, that brand lift that they got is help providing that credibility. And all these things then together, I think, create trust in community. I think having a great partner system allows you to build a community around your platform, around your users, people that are building on your product, people that are selling your product and they're working together. It's a great place to get feedback from your partners. Maybe customers aren't telling you directly, you know, issues or ideas that they have, but partners will often be very vocal because their business is tied very directly to you. And so as that starts to build, you get greater trust. Trust helps, of course, make difficult times harder or easier, sorry. Further, it helps accelerate the speed of transactions and relationships. All that then feeds back into the top of our circle by accelerating growth again. These things are probably fairly obvious. I don't think there was any major surprises year, but I think it's just a great reminder of the power of a great partnership program. So again, a little bit rhetorical, but what is a partner? And I only bring this up into the beginning because there are so many definitions of partnerships. And I think everybody you talk to will have a different take on what is a partner, how to define partnerships and really kind of how to think about partnerships. And having a clear foundation here, I think it can help you think about your strategy for your program. So I think the biggest takeaway though is that the lines are going to be blurry and that's okay. To break it down though into a little bit of a framework we can use. I just split out channel technology. We're obviously not talking about technology partners today, but I think there's a lot of overlap. And some people like to put everyone in very tight neat buckets, but often channel and technology partnerships and alliances and everything else, it's more of a then diagram. There's certain partners out there that might only be an integration partner for you or they might only be a channel. There's no technical element to it. And that's certainly true, but more often than not, especially in technology partnerships, there's an overlap where to enable the channel side, you have to have some sort of technology touch point. Technology partners, they might be in your app marketplace or you might be in their app marketplace, but there might be a channel element to it where they're still gonna bring you customers, even if that's not the primary point of the partnership. And so I just bring this up because I think sometimes partners can be looked at as a very segmented narrow lens. And really, I think it's important to have a holistic view of partnerships and in who they are and the value they bring and realizing that the value might not come solely from one area. But again, we're focusing today, you know, Premierland Channel folks that drive business to you. You might have heard Vars, Valietta resellers, They resell your product, but they do something with it. They attach a service or they integrate it with another service. System integrators who are building a custom solution for you, usually involved in large deals, managed service providers. This is probably one of the biggest segments, I think, or fastest growing segments in the channel space. These guys are very often technical in nature. They're usually reselling. but they're providing ongoing services to the customer. So it could be different monitoring of systems, it could be providing ongoing support. This is something, especially, like I said, in the SaaS space that lots of bars are trying to become MSPs because of all the additional revenue lines and ongoing services they can provide versus a one off transaction. Again, there's distributors, Again, oftentimes more of a legacy thought around channel, but they're just passing along, they're reselling. You might not really know the customer, but they're there to help fulfill a transaction. And then, agencies is another common one in the space. And again, all flavors of agencies who are reselling services is part of a channel. But across these, down at the bottom, I think all these types of partners can be also defined really by the type of relationship you have with them. So whatever they call themselves, whatever you decide to call them, I think the business relationship, it's most often defined by these four term down below. Affiliates, folks that are simply driving you traffic, in today's world, those tend to be links on a website. They don't necessarily even know the customers or people that are visiting them. they're just driving that volume. These partnerships are associated with high volume, sometimes lower quality. You're maybe giving them 20% rev share to send business your way. And this line is also blurred very closely with referral partners. Some people use them interchangeably, but just for definitions today and the framework I like to use is the notion that referral partners, they at least know their customer that they're sending to you. So they have some sort of relationship. You know, it can be a bank that's sending you a customer. It could be some sort of a user of a platform. Where a platform that has users that they're sending to you, it's not just blind traffic. Again, they might not know them on a great individual basis. It might not be a personal referral. But again, they're leveraging their relationship with the customer to refer them to you and say that we trust these guys, you should go check them out. Resolvers, a little more self-explanatory. Obviously they're taking on your product and reselling it. They're owning the transaction relationship. Oftentimes they're taking on things like support and other services. Sometimes this can even be white label resellers. At Echo, we built a tremendous program around white label partners where we would enable our platform to be branded by them and really own it. And in turn, we were able to also then have them step into taking roles around support and really lowering our cogs with those customers that came from white label partners, white label resellers. But no matter what with resellers, the margins tend to be higher than what you provide and affiliate and referral partner. because again, they're taking on more in that sale process. And then Alliance Partners, which is sort of a broad term, but it's some way where you guys are working together and sort of co-benefitting. Alliance this can be sometimes more around technology. It can be around channels as well, but I want to dive into a little bit more on sort of the relationship dynamics of these partnerships. And I think this is sort of the best visual representation presentation, I've encountered for kind of what value each of these partners can bring to you. I was trying to think about how to visualize it and credit to allbound.com. They're a great partner platform that we use, but they came up with this framework. I think it's really powerful. If you want partnerships that have a lot of value, but still have volume, I think resellers other way to go. Referral partners can be providing a lot of value in the referrals. And sometimes there can be more of a depth of relationship there because you're connected to them. The transaction isn't happening solely on the side of a reseller. And so referrals can bring that. We do that a lot at light speed now. It's a space we did it with, but not nearly at the scale of light speed where we have lots of customers that bring us, you know, high value, or lots of partners that bring us high value customers. You know, we have a depth of a relationship with the partner and with the customer because we are a part of the sales process. And we'll talk a little bit about that on self-through and so with in a minute, but again, referral customers can kind of lead us in this direction. I think the exact opposite that though is the affiliates. And again, it's funny that these get interchanged And I know why that happens, but they really are quite different. As I was saying, you know, affiliates can bring you a big volume and a bigger reach, but they're not always, you know, maybe the highest value customers. There's no depth of relationship there that, you know, really adds a lot of value. It's very, you know, transactional and just passing things along. And so I think these are all things you can think about as you're looking at your program, the partnerships you have today or the partnerships you're trying to get into. As you think about sort of the impacts of kind of what your goals are and the type of customers, you want your partnership to bring. So continuing on. And by the way, please feel free to interrupt with questions along the way. You don't need to say things till the end. I'm happy to address anything as it comes. But getting now a little bit more into the heart of the partner program and sort of, you know, really how do you think about a great strategy. I think there's three main concepts that are really, really important, whether you're starting out and thinking about putting the other program or maybe you're in the middle of a, you know, having a robust partner program. I think these things at any time are really valuable to take a look at. And first of all, and it is sort of like clear expectations, especially getting started, but even in established programs, what are your goals and sort of are they in line with the level investment that you're making in the program today? I think this is an area where a lot of people sort of set themselves up for failure, where they hear about partner programs being great growth drivers, having a great impact on sort of being profitable and lowering your CAC. But then they expect that this can be done with minimal budget and be done in a very short time. But the reality is, again, like we saw in the Virtua Circle, it's something that builds. So something to consider when you're thinking about the expectations of your programs are, what are your objectives? Is it driving revenue? Is it driving to maybe a strategic outcome like an M&A type transaction, are you looking for partners to help implement your services? Maybe it is a channel, but you're really focused on your customer success and you're looking for partners to help fulfill that. I think really understanding the objectives that you're after can really make sure that you're set up properly for success when you think about your program. Also, being really, really clear about how partners are actually going to help is important. Again, I think there's sometimes this notion that I just you know, step up a partners program. I set up some tears and then you know, these guys are going to do everything for me. But really knowing your product, knowing your customer, knowing sort of the whole life cycle of a customer and really being clear on how a partner fits into that is very important. If you have a high touch sales process and implementation process, but you're expecting a very lightweight partnership to transform into a partner that can do everything for you, might not be consistent with reality where you're going to have to probably go deeper in your partnerships and spend a lot more time investing in them. Again, knowing areas where they can help and maybe where they can't. Also, again, being clear on who would partner with you and who your ideal customer profile is for a partner is really important. Again, I like to think that you can find a way to work with everyone, but the reality is there's only certain folks that are gonna really make sense for what you do and what they do. And I think that's really important to be clear on early on. We talked a little bit about timelines and commitment. And I also, beyond the timeline piece, I say commitment because I think it's important to be reminded that partnerships are something that takes time to build. And so you want to be committed to it for the long haul. Not to say strategies and plans don't shift over time, but I think the worst thing that can kind of burn you in a partner ecosystem is frequent changes to your objectives or your commitments to partners. And partners notice that and they feel that and you become an unreliable partner if you're not committed. If you're in one year, six months later, you're not investing and then you're trying to get back in or maybe you shift your business model but then switch it back. Partners see that, they talk to each other and you're not gonna be set for success. I think that's very important. We talked about the resources thing and sort of an extension of that is really the team and infrastructure. I'll talk in a minute on the next slide about sort of like based on where you are on your journey, kind of what matters. But no matter where you are, whether you're in sort of the startup, you know, zero to 10 million mode. Or you know, you're 100 million plus, making sure that your team and organization alignment. Is really fitting with your objectives is important. You know, there's a lot of companies where, hey, we say we're all about partners, but you know, everything is direct sales motion, everything is aligned to enable them. We don't really have the resources, we don't really have the people, and we're wondering why it's not really working. And so making sure that there's really good alignment here is really important. I saw a hand raised here from Michael. Did you have a question, Michael? You can type it in the... I can, I'm going to try to test that some functionality. I can click allowed talk. Where you type in Michael. I'll add the talk. Michael. OK. Can you hear me? Yes. Yeah. OK. Great. Yeah. Thank you for that. Great stuff so far. Thank you very much. Chat was disabled. So I don't have the ability to do that there. But just regarding some of the stuff you're talking about here, in terms of alignment. Did you run into and have you run into channel conflict or gone to pursue a reseller relationship and had your sales team go, no, then reselling our product is going to potentially take revenue away from our sales reps, who are likely going to want to close those deals in short, trying to avoid cannibalistic scenarios. Is that something you've confronted and and how did you deal with that if so? Yeah, it's a great question. And it's certainly something that, depending on the market you're in and everything, you can counter very quickly. So I countered this at live office, Ansemantek, and less so at Ecwid, although the channel conflict we had, it was more at the level of our partners, them sort of competing with each other and sort of making sure we had clear rules of engagement there. But now even coming back to my current present space at light speed, we do see that channel conflict with customers and direct sales and our partners. In all cases, the best thing I've seen is finding ways to make deals comp neutral for partners for your sales team. One that having partners compete with your sales team with your sales team can really kind of poison their experience and perspective of partners. You know, they can try to undermine them. Making a neutral really allows them to see your partners as, you know, someone who can bring them value and make their job easier. You know, excuse me, live office was a huge space where we worked very collaboratively, a lot of cell whiff type deals. And we got to the point where, you know, sales people loved when partners would come in because they had done a lot of the pre-qualifications. They had really validated the opportunity and sales were coming in, kind of a step further in the process, but then really doing the higher value work of helping them close. So obviously there can be margin impacts and things you have to kind of manage for. But I really think that the best approach is making it comp neutral and avoiding the competition with your direct sales team. sales team. Thank you Scott. Yeah good question. Yeah the three one else has questions I think Chad might be on or if you if you raise your hand I think Jack will set you up to talk. All right so that that was on the expectation side I think I'm partner motivation I think this is is really critical and probably the thing that gets in this most is really understanding what moves the the needle in your partner's businesses. What are their objectives? Are they looking for more customers themselves? Are they trying to boost revenue with existing customers? Understanding, are they trying to get acquired or go public or whatever that case may be, making sure that your value prop and everything you're gonna offer to them. And we'll only resonate if you understand kind of where they are and what they're going what's happening in their industry. And certainly the competitive landscape there in makes a big difference. We found great opportunities with partners by recognizing where they were feeling challenged by people in the space that, like with the e-commerce example, that had e-commerce and it was something they didn't have. And by knowing that, knowing that they were competing in this space, it helped us understand their motivation and why they would work with us. Some partners, it's purely revenue and transactional. They just want something they can sell on that with high-attach rates into their existing deals. And that's fine. And they're looking for as much margin as they can on what they're selling. Other partners where they're trying to solve those competitive problems, like I mentioned before, it's funny. Sometimes they didn't even want almost any margin. But they wanted to be able to differentiate themselves in the market. and being clear on that is really important. I think the other thing is sort of, you know, really understanding, you know, the twist on product market fit, but product partner fit, you know, like, where do they fit in the, you know, the ecosystem of solutions out there today? And where do you sort of fit in and where can you help them fit with where they're trying to go? And again, you know, it's something you sort of have to test what resonates and again this will vary wildly by industry but making sure that there is a good fit that really fits where they're going is important. And we talked about this before with increasing revenue. I said two different things two different ways but are the same way but you know again is it a top-line revenue increase for partners that they're after or is it you know diversification of the revenue flows that they might be interested in. All these things can sort of shift, sort of the why for why they're working with you. And then lastly, I think it's important to have a clear view of your own value. You know, I'm a big fan of giving first, both in personal relationships, but also of course our business and partnership relationships. And being very aware of what you bring to the table because partnerships are two way street. I think sometimes there's a view that partnerships are purely about revenue. Obviously, that's a top line and bottom line thing that we all care about. But sometimes that can kind of miss really again ties that partner motivation. But like that partners are sometimes looking to us for not just, hey, I want to get a few more bucks selling your product. Maybe they want to access your partner ecosystem. When you have a lot of fulfillment partners, they're very interested in being part of that community and that ecosystem and not necessarily just selling, you know, again, you know, your solution and making a few dollars of margin, they want access to customer to sell their solutions. And so again, totally varies by ecosystem, but considering what it is that you're really bringing the table is important. You know, does your solution help them win deals or differentiate like we've talked about before? Or can you support them in ways that they can't be supported by others? And like I talked about a little bit before, are they after your product, are they after your customers? All these things, again, really affect the relationship and being very clear-eyed about the dynamics and what they want and what you can bring. It's really important to setting up a great strategy. Okay. So a couple of considerations. Yeah. I'm going to read a question from Phil. What are the typical lead times and sales motions that you experienced with more meaningful customer relationships, e.g. That drove revenue, wondering what expectations folks should have on timing and effort required along with how to think about partner account mapping. Yeah, great question Phil. And the short answer is, of course, it's going to vary widely, depending on your own sales motions and what the complexity of the product might be. But I think there's probably two sides to remember, one is the partner acquisition and that sales motion there. And I think it's important to remember that, even that first step of generating a partnership, is a sales motion. Some things like those small affiliates and referral partners are highly transactional. They're quick to sign up through a website, but really the more meaningful ones like you talk about are ones that are gonna develop over time. We've seen some of our biggest partnerships take over a year to develop, and some of it is a matter of time and place, where they are in their cycle. like we talked about with partner motivation, maybe they're re-platforming a service, and it's going to be a year of RFPs, and our vies, our P's, and proposals. Those things can take a lot of time to develop, but we've also seen tremendous partnerships develop rather quickly. We had a partner who we talked about for over a year. They were in our pipeline and we kind of thought they were done, suddenly come back to us and say, hey, we had a change in our business, we need to have an e-commerce offering in the next month. And they became a white label partner in the matter of 30, 45 days. And they became one of our top five partners in a very short amount of time. And so that thing of stage and motivation can make a huge difference. COVID was a huge impact for us. I know for some people is an accelerant, other people as a decelerant for e-commerce. It was a huge accelerant. We saw companies where we, like banks, who never moved quickly, suddenly put having e-commerce offering at the top of their priority list. And they're really able to accelerate and move the needle quickly. So yeah, great question. So then talking a little bit more about stage, I think there's a lot of considerations where you are in your journey. Again, this varies a little bit also whether or not you have a program yet. But if we think about the journey you're on, I think it's important to also realize what's appropriate for your partner ecosystem. Early on, we all have limited resources. a million things we're trying to tackle. And I think that the theme here is quality over quantity. I think there's great things about building a structured program that are really important. But I think those things can wait. I think early on, it's finding those key partners, you know, is that product partner fit, product market fit, you know, you want to quickly test, you know, where's our value prop why, who does it resonate with? What does it take to get a partner on board? What are the challenges to support that partner? Then we might encounter and taking a lot of learnings. And so early on at Ecwid, we had our first white label partner, it was an EECA website platform. They resonated with the value prop of, hey, commerce is complex. Don't build it on your own. We had a lot of lessons learned on all the things we needed to develop to support them from APIs to sort of our business processes. And so it was great though that we weren't going wide and just, you know, going after, you know, 20 or 100 different partners at once. But we were really taking the time to learn what works with with a strategic partner that was very clearly sort of in our ideal customer profile. Over time, I think you start developing those fundamentals, though. You want to establish repetition in your processes to identify, win and enable partners. You want to make sure it's something that's repeatable. And that's where you start building out the teams around them. You take the lessons learned from before, and now you're starting to do this at scale. At this point, after you get above 25 million, I think really the investment phase. You know, you've, you've have developed processes now. And now you're really proving that repeatability at scale. Again, it's sort of one thing with, to do it with 20 partners and, you know, four or five account managers and, you know, a marketing person. But, you know, how do you do this when you bring it, you know, expand it globally, when you expand to, you know, maybe with verticalization and making sure that this is something that can really scale with your business. And then you get into the 100 million plus which, again, I've got a great experience with, but I think it becomes an entirely different world where you think about the complexity of companies like the Microsofts or Salesforce, where there's a lot of different partner types. There's a lot of services around it, and there's a lot of complexity around it. But again, early on, I think, making sure you know what works for your business and making sure it's repeatable are the most important things to developing a sustainable program. And again, I've realized that I'm burning through the time here so I'll try not to talk to these too much, but some of the hallmarks of the great program and why partners want to work with you are strong sales and marketing support. They need to be equipped to sell. There's a lot of partner programs out there where there's just like, you're kind on your own and you gotta figure it out. But the ones that really work provide a huge amount of sales and marketing resources to partners. They train partners really well. I think it's important to remember how much work we put into training our own teams. And then you gotta think about the fact that, now you have people that aren't working for your company you're not controlling their incentives and they have their own core products that they're selling. So really investing and training, especially when there's sales-led motions, it's really, really critical to ensuring you have a great program that drives the results you're looking for. Support pre- and post sales is a difference maker. Like I said, in that sales journey, not just having the resources, but having someone they can turn to, we find a lot that sales people, they don't wanna bring up what they don't know. They don't wanna add something to a deal. Maybe they're selling another service, and then bring up your product and have it derailed and lose their entire deal overall. No matter how good your product is or maybe how good of a fit it was for that customer. If they don't feel supported, if they don't feel trained, if they don't have a place to go to answer questions, or if the partner worries about post sale support, this won't get implemented, it's gonna blow things up. They just won't bring it up. So making sure that they feel that support is really important. Customer access, you know, I think this a lot with like fulfillment partners. There's a lot of, you know, partners that really just want access to your customers. If this applies to you, I think it's really important to be aware of this. You know, I think again, like I talked about before, sometimes there's just a pure focus on revenue. But, you know, they sometimes they want access to your customers. They want to come to a partner event. They want to be able to speak to your customers and sort of, you know, sell themselves. just as much as they're selling your services. And so, I think this is an important dynamic to be aware of. And some of this can be done by the way with incentives and tiers. So there's the financial incentives that need to be profitable for them. But there's other ways that you could reward customers beyond just the revenue implications. So again, being able to be featured to your base, being able to, you know, present or something, or, you know, have certifications or values that they can do that kind of prove their value is something that can be really important. And I think the last thing that's really important is making sure that you have really clear processes and rules. And I think it was a great question earlier about, you know, you know, some of the channel conflict and the rules there. I think, especially as you grow, programs can start getting really complicated and you know making sure that your partners know the rules of the road that they feel like it's there is really important to kind of building and maintaining that trust. This is something I just wanted to point out really quickly as sort of a a risk thing to be aware of. I think a lot of people there's the popular 80-20 rule that people like to think about and you'll hear a lot of people say 80, 20 for partners, 20% of your partners bring 80% of your revenue. I think that's actually wrong. Definitely there's a distribution but I think it's often more like 90, 10 or sometimes even worse. I've seen this play out across multiple businesses where you get a couple big outliers that are your biggest performers and then is an exponential drop in terms of their impact. And that's OK, but I think it's something that a lot of people don't necessarily know and make decisions based on other assumptions. And so it's important to identify your top performers, who's rising at the top. I think there's always, of course, a great incentive and value to trying to sell in here the longer tail and boost them. But I think being aware of some of the limits here is really important. And with this framework in mind, I think it's really important too to identify what are your cost centers and what are your partners that are resource-hods. There's a long tail, I talked about here as well, low-tifed partners, that those are good. There's lots of debates and partnerships about long tail. There's some people that just wanna cut it off. And I do think that there's maybe a point for that, But you have to remember that in aggregate, your long tail can be almost the size of a large partner. We saw that at Ecwid where we had low end affiliates, very high end, white label resellers. But we sort of had this middle tier of partners that none of them were that big, but in aggregate, they became close to one of our top five partners. The focus to making this successful and profitable was making sure we could serve them efficiently and at low cost. A lot of these partners are very transactional. You might not hear from them very often, but hey, they have a customer, they bring it to you once in a year, twice a year. And that's okay if they're not using services. And in fact, you're usually providing a fewer discounts. And so it's not a bad business to have, but I think just again being kind of aware of this drag on potential drag on resources. and making the right decisions around it is really important. And one other topic too, I think that, and again, each of these segments could be their own topic, but I think understanding sort of the apartment engagement and the selling process is very important as well. You know, is it a sell to partnership where you're really selling the solution almost, it's almost like an enterprise sale. really almost selling the solution to a partner. You know, they are embedding the solution and reselling it. Do I echo it? We did a lot of these with partners, kind of like the site builder I talked about before. We had a lot of these partnerships where, you know, again, it was more like an enterprise sale. But then we didn't necessarily see a lot of direct, you know, having a direct relationship with the customer. It because the product became part of their solution. You know, the next kind of variation of this is then, you know, sell through partners, you know, very traditional resellers. You might get some visibility into the end customer, but like, you know, a distributor, they're just putting things on their self and shelf and they're, they're selling it through. I think in these relationships, you know, you really emphasize in the relationship with the partner and tools. And again, these tend to be very transactional sales once you get to the level of the partner to the customer. I think as complexity sort of increases, that's where you get more of these sell-with type of partnerships, where you have close engagement in the deal process, and you know all the customers and you're providing engagement through that sale. Think about when you have partners that have like deal registrations, you know, you're doing code demos together. You know, again, these tend to be aligned with more complicated products and higher value deals to make it worthwhile. And then there's all flavors of these that can kind of be mixed and matched in sort of a hybrid, but kind of also being mindful of these sales motions. It can be helpful in how you think about sort of resourcing on your own side, and also that alignment with sales teams. Sometimes sales teams don't apply. Your own sales team really doesn't come into deals much with like vendor type relationships like this cell two or even this cell through. But if you're selling with, you know, your sales team might be there helping close the deal together. And so again, it just impacts sort of that the strategy you put around is for sure the sales processes. This is a whole other topic and presentation we can do into like part of recruiting and sales and you know, like Phil was asking the questions on you know, meaningful customer relationships. But just a few things that sort of give you on finding or the right partners. And again, some of these are probably fairly obvious, but looking at shared customers, look at other people that are going after your type of customers. If you're winning deals and your direct base, do you start seeing patterns of, hey, they all work with this agencies. Do they all use this type of marketing service? Whatever that is, finding shared customers is a great key to unlocking a good partner. You know, looking around you and where your solution fits into the ecosystem, you know, are you both, are you and other companies all selling into, you know, the hub spot ecosystem? Are you all selling into sales courses ecosystem? You know, are you, you know, does, do they often buy your solution after buying another, being aware of that can help you find sort of adjacent partners that are easy to work with. And then in the partner recruitment process, I think it's really important to establish targets, targeted lists. We started creating sort of account-based marketing programs at Ecwid where we would identify, who our talk prospects are. Again, we had sort of a big long tail that we might do more mass market outreach, but we definitely had our top prospects list that we would individually pursue through direct communications as well as at events and really going after these guys in a very kind of sales motion was important. And lastly, again, sort of a sales thing but find someone who can be your champion at a partner. What is happening in their business, what a partner's motivation is can involve the competition they're feeling can change but knowing who your decision makers are and keeping track of, you know, sort of who's your champion who could kind of lend you their ear to say, hey, we're not really into this space now, but oh, now something's changed. Our competitor's gone into space. You know, our execs are now asking us how we solve for X. You know, can be really key to kind of getting the jump on your own competition as well. And I see a question from Stacy on software for managing partners. I think it's a great question. And again, part of it depends a little bit on your scale. So early on, I wouldn't worry about it too much. You can have a Google sheet or a list or something where you track prospects. But I do think there is a lot of value to CRM and PRM systems. And PRM for everyone is part of relationship management. At Echoed, we use both. We have a CRM for selling two partners. So we, you know, again, build our target account list. We have email activities and life cycle emails that we use when someone, you know, download the white paper at our website or signs up. You know, we track their journey as a partner through our CRM. But once they sign up, we invite them to be part of our PRM. We use all bound. And that's a place where we have, leverage it really for collateral sharing, for having playbooks, you know, things like that. I think the PRM type dynamics come a little bit later. You know, things like deal registration, you know, that's something we actually don't use in our PRM that might be more applicable to other businesses. So a little bit of it is also dependent on like how much you need need some of those services. But it's nice to be able to provide a custom portal to those users. And frankly, so the experience I gave you was the equate experience. In light speed, they use a CRM sales force, and then they build out the portal themselves as a part of it. So again, the exact platforms don't matter at time, but I do think having some approach to managing partners and enabling partners is definitely important. So good question, Stasing. Mindful of time, I'm gonna go really quick, but marketing your program, I think it's very similar to marketing your business. So having a very clear value prop in what you're offering we've talked about before is very important. You gotta be compelling to work with obviously. know, direct outreach, I think in partnerships, especially early on is most impactful. You know, find those early partners who are, you know, leaders in the space that others look to. And again, you know, you're going to get the best bang for your buck. I've just reaching out directly and finding the right people to work with. Events are very powerful. I think again, a little bit of this will depend on the nature of your program. I think it's easy to waste money at events and then sure you guys have all been aware of those experiences before, where you know a big booth, a lot of people at the event, but the traffic quality is low, a tactic we used in our partnership kind of journey was very focused on attending the right events, but not really worrying about sponsorships too much and really just focused on setting up meetings. So if we knew where our target partners were, we would make sure we were there, we were present, but we were focused on meaningful engagements with them versus like a large volume. Now this shifts a little bit if you're talking about targeting agencies or something that, you know, just by nature, the the the tan, the total address on the market is a lot larger. Then maybe being present at, you know, hub spots events or quickbooks events or something, you know, can be important. But again, I think quality over quantity, especially early on, it's very important. Success stories are really valuable. I think building upon the wins with your early partners and generating that social proof is really critical. Engaging and showing up for communities and you know again finding places where your prospective partners are working and being an active member of those is a huge way to really sort of show that you're part of the community building that trust and again as you're providing assistance and engaging you know then they're going to look to you for, okay, how do I work with you? And then again, sort of, I talked about a minute ago, but sort of that automation piece of, you're making sure these are repeatable. Again, early on, you're doing maybe some more testing, but as the program builds, making sure that this can be scalable, you're nurturing prospects, you're nurturing your partners through their lifecycle, I think is really important. So, partner success is a whole other category. I'm going to blow through just a There's a couple of slides on skip of you, but the classic Charlie Munger quote, I think is great, but show me the incentive and I'll show you the outcome. And I think that's very true with partnerships. And really to do this well and making sure you're getting your partners to be successful, I think there's kind of three principles. One is align goals, keeping everyone on the same page. Mindshare, it's the hottest, most limited commodity in a partner relationship. There's so many things that a partner is doing and making sure that they're thinking about you and your business versus your competitors or just other projects is very, very important to making sure that there's longevity to the relationship and then continuous improvement is critical to building a growing trust. And so align goals, again, I'll move quickly, but I think KPIs are obviously important. you have to quantify what are you targeting and making sure that your partners on the same page, clear communication of progress against those goals, addressing challenges early on, if things seem off track, and really having that open communication helps ensure alignment. Organizational alignment is huge. Again, this could be another entire conversation, But I think this is a big common source of problems where, you know, sort of the alignment of how your partners operate is very different from maybe how you operate or what it needed to be successful. You know, you can work with someone who's, you know, an executive partner champion who has the best intentions in the world. But if their organization is aligned in, you know, not appropriately if the compensation isn't structured properly, then, you know, it can be doomed to failure just based on sort of organizational issues alone. And so, you know, identifying these things, working with the partners to whatever extent you can to influence these things are really important. Personal goals, and again, this is sort of a hacky thing, but I always ask partners what they're individually comped on. We've all seen that thing where partners says one thing, they get busy, then they stop responding and you wonder what happened. I've found oftentimes, yeah, they want to work with you, but there's three other goals that actually matter to their compensation that they're focused on. And so knowing what defines a win for them and what moves the needle for them is really important. And that helps you understand the levers in their business to really impact it. And what you can actually do to move the needle is important as well as I think the visibility of the goals, both externally but also internally in your business. It should be really clear on how partners are doing, how they're impacting the business. And again, to build your own organization alignment that is important. Thanks, Eric. Just like your comments. Yeah, there's so many different workshops we could go into on these subjects and definitely happy to help support those because each of these things is its own sort of, could be its own breakout conversation. Again, I won't read a throw these, but I think keeping partner mind share, like I said, is really important. There's a lot of ways you can do this. But again, if you want them to stay attentive to your business, you need to make sure that you're staying in front of them and finding ways to stay top of mind. And then continuous improvement. Again, you need to ask, you need to know what is happening with your partners. We did automated surveys and NPS scoring, observe what's happening in the organization. Sometimes the winds of change start very suddenly. And so noticing changes in engagement levels is really important. Testing things with partnerships is really valuable in partners. So whether it's new products, policies, promotions, finding a couple partners that can be sort of your test cases can be really helpful before rolling things out scale. Post mortems when things go wrong and really communicating those and inviting a partner in is valuable for trust. Keep it on competition and being aware of what others are doing. So you're continuously improving the board. And then like I touched at one point is, don't rock the boat. I think, again, when this whole thing relies on trust, too many changes at once can really rattle partners. And you see news all the time where HP Partners lead or whatever it is because of fundamental changes. And if there's constant uncertainty, partners are gonna move to platforms that they can rely on and aren't causing instability in their own business. So I'll stop there. I know we're up in an hour. I can stick around for some questions. Again, as you can see, all these things could be breakout subjects and additional conversations. But I want to make sure that if anyone has questions, you guys have the chance to ask. As we wait for any final questions, Scott, I just want to say thank you so much from all of us at Peace Band. This was awesome. I noticed a bunch of Peace Band faces on the line as well. everyone is really psyched to hear all of your wisdom and I'll also reinforce forever in the line. We will be sharing a recording of this in Scott and Peace Band are happy to feel any follow-ups that you may have. Definitely any final words from you Scott or should I doubt? Yeah, I think just to wrap it up then is, you know, again, I'm a huge proponent of partner businesses. And, you know, there's so many other worlds even within partner we didn't talk about, you know, with strategic technology partnerships and integrations, app markets. But I really do think that, you know, a great partnership program can be a strong pillar of your business. And, you know, making sure that you really take the time to think about it and invest and properly, you know, I think can provide huge dividends. So super excited to, you know, see what takeaways you guys take from this. And again, if there's anything I can do to help in your journey, you know, definitely let me know. Fifth out sick. Well, thanks again, Scott. It's a pleasure, as always. Awesome. Thanks, everyone. Thanks all. Bye.