 Well, good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us for yet another installment of our masterclass series. Today's topic is building a scaling organizational culture led by peace made advisor James Isaacs, one of our decorated peace man, extra community members and a former portfolio partner executive. He was a formal president and see our so just really excited to be able to talk about the topic, but also to be able to share the virtual class virtual masterclass stage with the one of the only James Isaacs. just by way of background, James is a decorated scale a operator and senior go to market leader across five successful entrepreneurial company building adventures of the past 30 plus years. He probably has to pinch himself when I say that or just kind of reflect on the journey that he, and the journey that he's had across his amazing career, including as a former CEO, President and VP of Product Management and VP of Sales. He's been through the NASDAQ IPO process twice and grow companies from zero to 100 to 300 million in run rate revenue. So certainly no stage of the company development process that James has not yet seen. James was also the president of CR, as I just mentioned, for six years, helping the company under grow incredible transformation. And I saw this firsthand as a board observer through a period of hyper-revenue growth in completion of a $350 million scale of financing led by K1 in 2022, where James was obviously an instrument of role and successful completion of that transaction. In this session, James is gonna be spending the hour deep diving into the art and science of managing organizational culture, right? And I think we've talked a little bit about the concept in the past in terms of what got you may not get you there. And I think there is transformation that you undergo as an organization when it comes to your leadership team, culture, go-to-market strategy, product portfolio, et cetera. And so oftentimes a topic that gets under overlooked is how your culture has to scale. And so excited to be able to double click on this topic with no better kind of author and innovator than James. And so with that, I'll turn it over to James before I, before we kick things off though, I want to share that as always, this time is for you all our community members. And so we want to make the session interactive. And so if you have any questions, please, please, please, feel free to use the Q&A function of the bottom of your screen. And I'll make sure that I love those questions over to James, but with that, Mr. Isaac's over to you. Awesome. Fantastic. Thank you for that very complimentary introduction. I'm going to just tape that and play that every morning to go get it in the morning. As Senkat said, I had some experience. I've been blessed, I've been lucky. We're in great products, great teams, great customers and have had some success building companies. And the thing that struck me about all this is that we scrutinize the business with a microscope. We look at, okay, MQLs from this program, convert at this rate to close deals. This engineer produces X number of story points. That engineer produces Y number of story points. How long does it take to go from stage two to stage four in the selling process? So we reduce the business to like just small, almost atomic analytical building blocks. And as we shut, because the more you look at the business, the more you can get to actionable insights and fix things. But what I've noticed is it's not so much with culture that we do that. And I think there's two reasons for that. One is that culture doesn't lend itself to the same kind of analytical lens, the quantitative one. And I think the second reason is whenever you start looking at culture, we have to look at ourselves as leaders. We have to look at ourselves, our behavior, what we do, and how it creates the environment, the culture, in which people work. And because of that, I think culture ends up being the most overlooked, underrated, it's talked about with the least precision. And yet, it's the most important part of the leadership toolkit, as what I found in my experience. And so, in the next 60 minutes, what I hope to do is help to think and act more intentionally about culture. And normally, when I do this kind of work, it's a half day workshop. You get to do a bunch of diagnostics ahead of time, figure out what the pressure point is, and what problem you may be wrestling with. In this format, what I'm gonna do instead is talk about things that I've seen that are best practices, and things that I've seen that are common mistakes. And these can be, you know, combination of things I've done myself, and or I've seen in the course of my advisory work. And at the end, I'm gonna give you some exercise to take back to your company. So, why spend 60 minutes on the topic of organizational culture? Culture determines how things get done in your company. And the culture also determines how we treat each other on a day-to-day basis, what's the environment like. And here's the thing. If you're a CEO, a peak span portfolio company, you're an ELT member of a peak span portfolio company, if you get the culture right, the company starts running itself and you can flip up to higher bit level kinds of problems. And as your company grows, you get to 100 people, 150 people or more, you can't know all the individual people. It is the culture what you'll find will be controlling how things get done and how people treat each other. So this is it's a bit of the secret sauce and running a company. So let's dive in and define this. So, culture is one of these words it invaded from academia a couple decades ago into the business world. And I'm going to borrow one definition which I think has a lot of utility for us in the business world. Culture quite simply is to set a rules within an organization that control behavior And oftentimes, these rules are unwritten. So culture is the set of rules within an organization that control behavior. So culture is not, you know, part of me a second here. It's not your mission. It's not your values. It's not your vision. These terms are not interchangeable. But I think sometimes we are sloppy we are sloppy in how we use these terms and we use them, you know, fungibly and they're not interchangeable. So mission and values and vision and culture are absolutely distinct. So for example, mission is the purpose of your company. Why does your company exist? So Sankat mentioned those, President at Sierra, Pete Spanford, Follywood Company. We had a very simple mission, improve customer experience on planet Earth. And we used to measure it in the millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions, and billions of customer relationships and interactions that we influence. That's why we existed. Values are what you believe in. That's what you hold in your heart and what you aspire to be when you're at your very best. And these are the things you don't compromise on. Your vision, that's a picture of what the universe and the world's going to look like, like once your product is propagated everywhere. And finally, culture is the set of rules to control behavior. These are absolutely distinct and different things. And I'd encourage you to speak with precision and clarity on these things. Because sometimes we kind of mush these all together and they are absolutely distinctly different. Now, values and culture, they're kind of twins. You ultimately, you can't have a healthy organizational culture without clear values. Values, what we believe in, culture, the set of rules that control behavior in the organization. Normally, again, when I workshop things like this, we spend a lot of time talking about what are your values, what are the values of the company? Because the culture, the rules that control behavior come directly out of that. Just given kind of time and the venue, we're gonna focus mostly on culture today. So how do you know when you bumped into the organization's culture? Well, you start hearing things like this. Like, you know, you're, it's the second week when you're at the company. And suddenly somebody says to you, hey, we don't do that here. And you go, what? Where was that written, though? I didn't know that. Or somebody says to you, we don't do it that way here. So the first thing is kind of a what and the second thing is a how. And alternatively, you also hear people saying things like, hey, let me show you how it's done. But, you know, we do it this way here. or you'll hear somebody say, hey, you know what, you get promoted. Are we applaud when you do this? So you can take all of the organizations' cultural rules, and you can put them in those two buckets, which are basically prohibit behavior or encouraged behavior. It's like, stop or go. Just about every rule in your company, in your organization, falls into one of those two buckets. And this is how you know what you bumped in the organization culture when people start saying things like this to you in a meeting or in the hallway, etc. So maybe drawn on my own career one thing sank it didn't mention in my biography. I worked at Apple computer right when I got to school work there for seven years as a product manager and at Apple, there were certain rules. The version 1.0 of the product had to be perfect. That was a golden rule that the user interface had to be great, that it delight the customer. My second startup got purchased by Microsoft, and I ended up working there for a couple of years. There were a distinctly different set of rules there. It was okay to ship an incomplete version 1.0 product, and you would improve it through customer feedback. The quotation in the lower right is a literal direct verbatim quote of a corporate vice president at Microsoft who said to me, hey, Isaacs, you think like an apple guy, just ship the product. We have more cash. We have more capital, more cash flow. We have more IQ. We're going to win in the end. And this is about 15 years ago. So I don't know if Microsoft still runs this way or not. But I vivid memory of the guy saying this to me, these are, you know, distinctly different cultures, the set of rules about the dimension of a shipping of product were different. And these are both wildly successful trillion dollar market cap companies. But if you grew up in one of them, as I did, professionally at Apple, and then you're kind of just dropped into the other one Microsoft through an acquisition, you have this like a piff in a moment about how powerful organizational cultures are because you have this sudden realization that what could get you promoted to one company? Who gets you fired at the other one? I'm not saying one's right. I'm not saying one's wrong. They're just different. And these are wedded to an overall go-to-market and business model approach that distinctly works. And if you know I should say, if it sounds like I'm denigrating Microsoft or something like that, I'm not. It was actually a very finely-brained well-thought-out strategy. They targeted certain CISOs and certain CIOs who had taken in complete product, particularly in the enterprise space, and taken on and work it in return for the ability to shape the development of the product. So, a great example of rules. And by the way, these weren't written down anywhere. At Apple, in the first couple of weeks as you worked, the year just taught this, it was in the air in the meeting, simply a Microsoft. really good example of culture. So for the next hour, whenever you hear the word culture, the word I want you to hear in your head is rules. We say the word culture a lot and it can mean a lot of different things to different people. For the next hour, I want you every time I say the word culture, hear the word rules. And here's just something to think about is that sometimes these These roles are intended, like what I just described at Apple, and sometimes there are roles that are unintended. There's something you did as the CEO of a company or as an EL team member at the company that led to an unintended rule getting installed. Some of these are written, some of these are unwritten. And what I'd like you to reflect on as we go through this next hour is that you definitely have a culture. It just may not be the one you want. And it may not be the one you want to do some unintended rules, which you have installed, which most likely are unwritten. Okay, it's quiz time. And I think Sanca is going to administer this. And what I want you to do is answer this, how many employees in your company could accurately describe the core values, so I'm putting a cultural side from the moment, describe the core or values of your company, the way you do as an executive leader. So you should be able to answer that. I think Sankat will see. Give me a guess. Yeah, I've got 56% respondents, 60%. If folks want to just take a second and click on one of the options on your screen, and I think once I end the poll, you'll be able to see the results that are James, give me one sec here. Got a few stragglers. You guys thought you could just, you know, listen to me talk for the whole hour, you're doing emails and we'll talk about all these participation people. Ginger, are you able to see it on the screen as well? I can see quiz. It says, host and panelists can't vote. That's what, so I'm not saying the results. Not good. I think as soon as you close the poll. Few more folks here. All right. I mean, it's just the time what I'll do is I'll just end it. Can you see the results? I'm not saying I'm right. Oh, there we go. So the looks like very, very high percent, almost a third, 29% say 75% employees would describe the company's values the same way. is the exact order, the commonality about, let's see, 21% say 50% of employees would. And then if you added up the bottom part, about half the people say 40% or less the employees would do this. Only 3% responded to say 100% of employees would describe the core values of the company. Got it. OK. Let's go to, I'll comment on this. Let's just remember that. Let's go to the next quiz, which is same question. How many employees in your company could describe the culture the way you do as a leader? And so people should be voting now, or will. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. I'm going to go ahead and do that. So how are we doing? San Quetta? We are pretty close to about the same number of respondents. I'm going to end the poll here and then share my show. So this one pretty similar that 75% of employees would would answer, describe the culture in the same way. So here's what I say, when I've done this exercise as a live fire exercise, you are lucky to get 30% of the employees describing the culture the way the executives. You're lucky to get 30% of the employees describing the values, the way the executives would. And I think I do that as a diagnostic find out how well has the executive team communicated. It was pretty interesting. The results are presented today a little bit stronger than what I at least I've observed in live-fire exercises with expand and other portfolio companies. So again, we're going to dive in. I'm a student of failure. My own others. I like to learn from that. So we're going to look at what are some common mistakes in managing the scaling of organizational culture that people commit. So typically I get called in to consult or advise on go to market. How do you mechanize a sales and marketing machine to get from 10 million to 20 to 50 million in revenue? And you know, somewhere, you know, talk to CEO and say, hey, what's the culture like at your company? And invariably, I get something that looks like this. Oh, my employees are just happy children in the meadow. days just a you know happiness fair creating products and delivering value. Okay I'm doing only slightly hyperbolic and you know sarcastic on that but you'll hear kind of a glowing thing from the CEO and then you know you get to work with a company in about week three you start to get inside the circle of trust and you start hearing from some people and at least for some people the The culture is a living hellscape. And what the CEO thinks the culture is, versus what the culture actually is, is at a divergence. And it looks different from the top. And the reason it looks different from the top, particularly rapidly growing companies, we're gonna talk about what are some of the causes of it. The CEOs become out of touch. The primary reason why this happens is the CEO has not made it comfortable for the employees to tell him or her what it's like. What is the lived experience of the culture? How things get done? How we treat each other? What are the rules? This is unfortunately very common. And like I said, this is something that the CEO fundamentally owns. Here's another common mistake, and I see this a lot. We're just like a family. You'll hear the CEO say, and usually this is a founder CEO who is remembering back to the beginning days when they were in a garage or a small office or whatever, and 10 of them were together. And they work kind of like a family. Everybody was camaraderie and supporting each other and everything else. Family is unconditional love. And you got that leave at the beaver looking 1950s family there on the right. But in business, if you don't perform, you're gonna be fired. Your company is not just like a family. It's not. it's performance oriented. And I guarantee you, as a CEO or an ELT member, if you say the words were just like a family, you're setting yourself up for a high friction termination, the first time you have to terminate somebody. This is a very common mistake that I've seen CEOs make. Just don't use those words. Another common mistake. Gangs and tribes. You don't have one company culture, you have several. And it's likely it was divided by geography or by function, or maybe undegested acquisitions, like some hardmoundal of acquisition you didn't fully absorb it. So I think everybody knows different functions have a slightly different vibe. People who go into engineering by training, self selection, et cetera, tend to operate one way. folks who go into sales by training and background experience tend to operate another way. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about fundamentally different sets of rules and how the respective organizations are run. Or sometimes by geography, folks in the UK do things one way in the folks in the US, another way, different set of rules. So this happens because the CEO and the ELT ELT do not speak with one voice about one set of rules to run the company. And the place where this becomes problematic is the day, the time, place where you need to mobilize the entire company to run in one direction, which you got a different set of cultural rules, how things get done, urgency of it, that are different by these different gangs and tribes. This is very, very common. And again, this happens because a CEO and the ELT do not speak with one voice. You notice how a lot of these mistakes I'm saying, the CEO owns it, well, they do. At the end of the day, the kind of definition and operation of the culture is in the CEO and the ELT's hands. The founding team are the cool kids. Now this is kind of a version of gangs and tribes. And here, what I would say, what is quite common is that, you know, when you start out, everybody's a generalist. One day you're an engineer, then your product manager, then your sales engineer, you know, one day you're, you know, selling something next day, you're doing financial analysis. team have extraordinary work ethic. They have like high IQ. They have you know technical domain mastery and market domain mastery and they have the ability to phase shift in between jobs. But as you just add even a little bit of scale to the thing five, 10 million a year, you start pulling in specialists who are experts at the craft like a sales leader or something. So what happens to some members of the founding team is that they are cursed by being a generalist and they don't go deep in one particular function. Like, okay, now you are a product manager, or now you are a salesperson and get great at it. And so what happens is that sometimes the company grows faster than members of the founding team. So typically, a constellation is usually two or three core founders and about a dozen members of the founding team. All five of the startups that I did had an element of this in it. And what it can sometimes manifest as is members the founding team being retained in jobs where it's simply not commensurate with what their actual contribution to the businesses and it creates some some friction. And again, this is because the CEO has not had what I would describe as the hard conversations and helping members of the founding team go deep. And by the way, I think it's absolutely fantastic, important, and is a must to retain the founding teams, as I noted on the slide, energy brains, I just risk taking skills. It's fundamentally different than the professional management. This is quite common, and again, it happens because the CEO is not attending to it. Do you all remember the movie Casa Blanca? And that's seeing where the, you know, Gestapo's telling the French police to shut, you know, Rick's American Cafe, Humphrey Bovar Cafe, it comes up with the pretext of gambling. I'm shocked, shocked. The gambling is going on in here. And about a half a second later, the Cropiae comes up and says, oh, you're winning, Cyril, thank you. So rules only apply if they apply to everyone. You really gotta walk your talk. And there has to be no exceptions. And so particularly if you have a body of rules, how you get things done, how people are treated, it's gotta apply to everyone. CEO, ELT, everybody. No exceptions. If you are vague, the employees will make it up. This is the most common mistake and has actually some of the most serious, deleterious side effects. So I was at a conference, PE conference, we were workshopping organization culture and this one CEO comes up to me with coffee, but hey James, James, this is great. God, I love this culture stuff. Let me tell you about the culture of my company that I'm like, hit me. And so he said, our culture is the underdog. And kind of jotted his chin out and stared at me. And I, you know, the mental image I got was, you know, the cartoon character. And I realized that's a boomer reference from a while ago. But that's what, you know, I was in my head. And I think I understood what he was trying to say that, you know, were gritty and were resourceful and we got hustle. But what does underdog actually mean? If you're the CEO, you're standing in front of employees and you're explaining, our culture is the underdog, you know, that is not a set of rules that control behavior. It doesn't give guidance and it's open to interpretation. So being vague about what the culture is is a very, very typical kind of thing. So and because of that, cultures can drift. And so this is actually a very common problem in companies that are undergoing rapid growth and it's kind of like sailing or flying that even like a tiny divergence at the outset results in very large errors over time. So if you're You're like 10 degrees off and you go 500 miles and you're in an airplane. You're gonna be 86 miles away from the runway. I hope you got enough fuel to get, make it back to the runway. It would be 86 miles away from the harbor and the port you hope to steam into. And so drift happens for a bunch of different reasons. It was interesting, had a helping I'm a peace band interview for some Sarah candidates. There's one guy who's self-remain anonymous at a public company. He said something really interesting in the course of the interview about this topic on Solis that he said, every time you let a behavior go uncorrected, you create a new culture. And this guy grew from eight sellers to 300 sellers, about 10 million a year to something like 500 million a year in a public company. So you're aiming for true North, you just drifted. So this drift happens a lot, particularly when you're growing. And you know, you didn't correct that countercultural behavior like the gentleman was quoted. Or you hired an individual contributor, it's not a culture fit, or you're hired the wrong VP, who's not a culture fit. And the kill zone underneath the bad VP is you. Or you're just vague on what the culture is. It's the underdog, but there's no specificity on how you should behave. Or you didn't write it down, and you don't talk about it often. Drift is something that happens quite often, particularly as you go into hiring mode. James, can I ask you a question? You said something to me. And actually this process that I thought was really fascinating that I'd love for you to maybe just expand on for this audience, which is, you know, you're kind of hiring, looking through your windshield, not your rear rear mirror, right? Especially as you think about building your leadership team. Do you mind sharing a little bit about that and I've also got to follow for you on that? Sure. Yeah, so again, I was partnering with Peaksband on a CRO hire. And what we were encouraging, fantastic company, Geronlick, Angbusters, and the Wanda Brings, some more kind of sales and marketing leadership talent. There is a bias for a founding team to hire a culture fit, which is looking backwards to like how we were back then as opposed to a culture and skill fit to where we want to go. And like, I think if you're the founding CEO and you're bringing in some talent, you got to think about and look at, yeah, there's all the strength that everything was behind us, but we're becoming a different company. So as you interview, you know, realize and recognize, you're going to bring somebody in that's going to be closer to where your journey is taking you, not where you've been. You said you had a follow-up. Yeah, and James, I guess on that note, how do you think about, I mean, we've got Founder CEOs, like all of summer are going to be founding CEOs, are going to be, you know, folks that will come in the business later on in the journey. I mean, how do you think about the influence folks like yourself might have in terms of shaping the culture right? If you think about like, you know, what the founding team at Ciara, you coming in at such pivotal time in 2017 and we added folks that were critical like Mark and Linda and others. Now, how do you think about multiple people contributing to this tapestry that becomes and how the culture evolves? would say being top down, you know what I mean? And something that's been kind of institutionalized memorialized early journey versus something that evolves over time and is bought into and contributed by others on the leadership team. I think I think we could do an hour webinar on that topic alone. But let me just see if I could answer that. I think if you let's say you're the founding CEO, you're now bringing a president or a CRO or a new CFO or you know, whatever is you just mentioned, you need to think about that as a the refounding moment of the company. Because you need to make room for that person to exercise within whatever their remit or purview is. And I think a C culture more as an evolution. If you're a founding CEO, you've gotten this thing to 10 million a year and it's grown like gang busters, you've done a great job. And whoever you hire as a president, sure a shooting should be celebrating the culture as it stands today and look to evolve it, which is the next topic here, what I was just gonna get into. So we can do a long session on that too. And I think it's the founding CEO who's bringing in a CRO or president has to look at it. I am refounding the company right now. I'm hiring a leader so strong that it's almost to be like I'm remaking the company. But the people coming in, they should be looking at like, this is a great company. They have had a great culture. It has accomplished a lot and they should celebrate that, you know, as you go forward. And that's kind of, that leads into this topic, the common mistake is that you don't manage cultural change effectively. And managing culture change is kind of like, you're in the highway, you're in the HOV lane, and you could just, you know, with a deliberate motion, change one lane and the next lane, next lane, get off the next exit, or you can just, you know, ram through four lanes and hope you don't kill anybody, Like that guy did. And cultural change, if you haven't spoken with clarity, how's the cultural will evolve, you're gonna have a traffic accident. So if you're the CEO and you bring in the CRO, announce it to the company and effectively make room for that person. So a lot of times, I'll put up the slide to talk about cultural change. And I'll say to people, hey, it looks like a rugby scrum, right? And then when I say, no, that's just an average day for a VPN to start up. That's what every day looks like. A VPN to start up or see when you're, you know, 10, 20, 30 people, you're judged on, how do I handle the 100 square feet in front of me? Do I, you know, distill act on information, you know, plow through it quickly, make the decision, then mobilize the company, either a defensive thing like the system crash and I got to fix it, or there's like a new customer partner. I got to execute against quickly. You're in the scrum and you're handling details very quickly, even at only five or 10 million a year. Your management style and the way the company operates and the culture looks more like hers. You know, she's not in the pool. She's on the sidelines, coaching and orchestrating and managing through others. That's an example of a cultural change that it's actually a matter, every single startup goes through that, every single one. And some people manage that better, some people end up with a car accident. Well, let's dive into some some best practices. So here's one that absolutely nobody does. Have an onboarding ceremony. So there you see, you know, new employees walking up the gang plank to join the ship. You know, I got news for you. You hire somebody. They're still doing their old job for the first 90 days they're working for you. And so an onboarding ceremony, it's a clear demarcation line with the path. You have you sever the ties with the previous employer and you you celebrate this new employees as part of the group and you bond them in. So I ran into one startup. They had an onboarding ceremony called role your own reality and you're encouraged to stand up in front of the company and tell your life story. And you're encouraged to make yourself a little bit vulnerable and talk about character forming events and things and doing such a way that people really got to know you. That didn't cost anything. So here's the thing, if you do this exercise, you're going to distinguish yourself, your company and your culture because nobody does it. It's a very simple no-cost thing, severed ties with the previous employer. Right down your culture and... And James, maybe just on that prior slide. Do you mind just sharing examples of what you all did at Sierra, maybe at other companies that you've advised or were a leader at that you thought was pretty innovative and just something that you want to replicate every time? Yeah, the one I described was one that worked well and it worked at, you know, a small scale. It breaks down at a certain point when you get past department level because you can't, it's difficult to have somebody, you know, stand in front of the whole company when you're, you know, hiring, you know, 15 or 20 people. That one worked really well. I would say at CRR, we did a kind of department by department. I don't think we really embraced this at CRR that well. I think there are a couple other companies, larger ones, that have a, I would say a better way of doing this. I think Google, whether it's, you know, Googler, whatever they call it, Newgler class, as they bring people in, does it. But here's what I would say. I would not, don't make it elaborate, don't spend a lot of money. It's something simple that fits, you know, your company is the way to go. Good problem. But I would say, Sarah, I don't think we mastered this perfectly. So as I look back with the texture at time, this is something we could have done better. So even what you're saying is that even as you scale to two, three, four hundred people, maybe it's not appropriate to do it in all hands. You got 20 new hires. Yeah, you could have an email or there might be an internet or there might be a Slack gym. It's great thinking right there. Or you at least do it in front of the department and the function. Yeah, yeah, makes sense. So write it down. So here's a best practice. Write it down, repeat it often, integrate it into how you're on the company. So it's just like the Latin is chiseled into the tablet there. There's a lot of value in writing down your culture. It reduces ambiguity and you get total clarity. What I was saying earlier about, you know, being vague and how that's a problem, you know, nature boards of vacuum if your vague employees are going to fill it up. They're going to make it up. They're going to drag the best and the worst where they had from a previous company. You write it down. You get total clarity. If you write it down, it's better for mass adoption and and propagation the bigger your company gets. It's great for onboarding new employees. And it's good for integrating acquisitions when you have, you know, the group of people who just acquired them. They just they want to know what are the rules. How do you do things here? And I think this one is one of the best reasons to do this. Employees can hold leadership to account. If you write it down back to like the rules have got to apply to everyone that you know, Rick's American cafe and the you know, I'm shocked, shocked that gambling's going on there. If you write it down, the employees can hold leadership to account. And if you have unconventional practices in your, how you run your company, you could make them explicit. company I think does a very good job at this and that's Netflix. You know, Netflix, three different business models over multiple decades. It used to be a physical delivery of DVDs, you know, almost like a kinetic logistics business model, then they went to streaming, classroom, different set of skills. And then they took Hollywood on directly with a high creative content creation business, three different business models, different talent required incredibly successful global company. They are extremely detailed with their written cultures. There's a 126 slide long presentation first published in 2009 the Culture Deck. And it answers all kinds of questions. How do I get promoted? How do I get paid? What are Netflix's core values? What are the expectations around performance? Under what circumstances what I get terminated in. How does the team operate? It's very, very detailed. And I encourage you to download the deck and read it. And there are some unconventional practices and from the culture deck and from the Netflix website now, this is a direct quotation. Seceding on a dream team is about being effective, not about working hard. Sustain be performance despite an A for effort gets a severance package with respect. But if you're a new employer there for a year and you can say, hey, hey, I was doing B work. And B was like a strong passing grade in school. Aren't I doing great here? I mean, no, you're fired. But wait a minute, don't you remember? We wrote that down. There's zero ambiguity from new hires about how Netflix works. I would describe what's on the screen here as an unconventional practice. Most companies do not operate that way. It's a really good book to read. The Netflix culture has really explained no rules, rules. I recommend reading it. I think it's very difficult to put into play what Netflix has done. Read talks, hastings to see talks about, you know, in the company, nearly tanked in the 2000 tech bubble crash, fired to the third of the company. You kept the strongest people, and suddenly the company became way more productive. And what you discovered from that, you you like high degree of talent density, you can do better. Get the best people and only the best. Candor and feedback. How do you give feedback that's assistive and accelerated and helps people get better as opposed to just denigrating them and beating them down and a lot about removing control. So great book, hard to do this stuff but you may be able to pick a thing or two up a good friend of mine worked there for years, seven years. He's actually mentioned in the book. He, about a year three, when I asked him, took him out the lunch and said, so what's it like? And he said, I don't know if I'm going to get fired next week or not. I said, doesn't that make you anxious? He said, no, I'm doing the best I can do. Other people are asking me to do my best. I'm asking other folks to do their best. The way he described it is almost like a liberating, levitating kind of feeling. So there's a lot in the book. Looks like I see a hand up there. Was that a question? Yes. James, we've got a question here. What things should be written down when discussing culture? I'm going to give an example of what we did with Sierra. But I think what you want to do is how things get done. And I've actually got a slide on it. Let me hit that in just a second. Let me hit that in just a second. One company culture globally. Sometimes people say to me, hey, James, I can't have one company culture. I got guys in Poland. I got guys in Japan. I got people in India. I mean, these are all different national cultures. And I say, no, that's not right. Because every national culture values the same things. Integrity and honesty is more value than duplicity and mendacity. There is no national culture on the planet that says, I love duplicity. I love mendacity. Give me more of that. Every national culture favors more communication and transparency versus secrecy. Every culture values team more than individual, even Americans who happen to be very individualistic value the team highly. Just figure a way of picking the wording for your company culture that values and values that translate well to multiple geographies and have some patience and some tolerance and some understanding that your company's culture may manifest slightly differently in different places. So Americans are very outspoken, comes to them very naturally. That is not true of every national culture. So you may have to encourage people, if anything, okay Americans, you know, dial back a little bit and then some other national culture dial it up. But you absolutely can have one company culture globally and you should. So this is an answer to the question you asked a moment to go. So what I've seen in like you know successful culture and value statements, they have a couple of elements. One, somewhere performance is in there isn't just like happy kids holding hands in the meadow. We love each other. No, we're here for results. We're here for outcomes. So there's something about performance or results. Teamwork or something about celebrating people coming together on the team. Something about urgency, you know, you're all peak span portfolio companies. Your advantage over larger companies is that you can act more quickly than larger companies and then integrity. Something about fair play, something about honesty. Successful cultures in successful companies have at least these four things. So an answer to the question that was res. What kind of thing should you put in the cultural rules? I would say at the very least, it's these. That makes a ton of sense. And maybe just a couple of quick, tactical questions. One is, presumably, every executive team is having an offsite or strategic session at least once, if not multiple times per year. How often have you seen or would you advise executive teams to revisit culture. I'd say once a year maybe you really want these things to be like underlying tectonic plates. Yeah, you're not swapping these out every quarter. Maybe once a year, you think about and say, you know, we thought about it. it were changing the wording of this one or adding one, etc. But you want to like curk the late on these enough to pick them and stick with them maybe once a year. That makes sense. And maybe the, I guess I'm curious about, I'm sure for some folks are thinking of this, but one is how do you, especially for an organization like Sierra that gotten to 250, 300 plus employees. How do you quote unquote, like police it or like validate that those are not aspirational. They're lived and they're lived across the ranks. Very satisfied. All right. Well, This is like. What a pendant it. Straight man. Another best practice. Is to stand in front of the employees and ask the question, when did the culture break? Because here's, I'll put it this way. I waited way too long in my career to do this. So I would advise you, peak spent, portfolio CEOs and EL team members, do this now. This is scary to do. The reason why I waited a long time and the reason why CEOs are afraid of doing this, you stand in front of your employees and you ask the question, when did the culture break in the last 90 days? You are suddenly giving up your positional powers, CEO, and you're handing the power sector to the employees. And suddenly, they get to say, this thing went wrong and you kind of own this, Mr. Hermes CEO. So it's kind of scary to do this. So the way you do this exercise, get everybody in the room. Tables of eight to 10 say, I wanna hear when did the culture break in the last 90 days? Each table, talk about it for 10 minutes, pick a spokesperson, come back and tell us. Now usually what happens the first time you do this is that, and this is, you know, answering the question, well, how do you find out what that's going on? People are really adhering to the culture enough. The first time you do this, people come up with kind of odd little comments, you know, it's usually like operational friction things. Hey, we're in the ABC group, and the XYZ group let us down, and that's the culture breaking. And you know, if you're the CEO, you sit there and go, well, I grew the ABC group faster than I grew the XYZ group. This is kind of, you know, operational, you know, friction of a scaling company. But here's the magic part, and this is an answer to the previous question. When you do this, when you ask the employees, when did the culture break? Tell me, they suddenly figure out, oh, I'm a steward of the culture. I own the culture. And this is the magic thing that happens. People start going out and the culture becomes self-healing. So the question that was asked is to my go, So how do you figure this out? You make itself feeling. Again, you spend enough time to percolate on and crystallize. These are our cultural rules. And then you put it in the hands of the employees. And it's really, it's a phenomenal thing. The culture becomes self-feeling. So for the Peaksman CEOs in the audience or ELT members, I'm challenging you. I'm defying you to go back. It's stand in front of your employees and just say, hey, when did the culture break? And I'm telling you, you get a bunch of bizarre responses. I remember doing this exercise once. This is at CR. One guy got up and he started talking about a company he worked for like two companies ago and how broken the culture was. That had nothing to do with the CR. The guy was like group therapy or something. It was kind of funny. You'll get a bunch of things. And some people will say stuff, oh, the culture broke because of this or that. And you're like, you're the CEO, you'd be like, that's not the culture. But you just found out that what that employee has in his head is not what you want the culture to be. So this is scary to do, but I'm challenging you to go off and do it. Awesome. Thank you, would say just do it. Yeah, it just, it's gotta help people see themselves. This is another very good practice around building culture. So what's on the screen are three well-known psychographic kinds of tests. And the point of these, they help people figure out what's your communication style and what's your work style. And I'm not necessarily recommending one over the other. there's very well developed ecosystem of consultants who do this kind of work. The reason why this is important to do, particularly for companies that are size of, you know, what's inside of the Peaks Man portfolio, your employees have probably never done this. You have to, you have to have worked at a large company usually to have had this experience. And it's almost like a revelation to people to find out, like, oh, you know, I'm Jane and I'm process oriented. Like you find out what your instrument is, or I'm, you know, building the extrovert. And here's how I solve problems. I talk at it because I'm an extrovert. And so if you're trying to get people to coalesce around a set of rules and how you operate, helping them see themselves and how they operate as individuals is incredibly assistive. And it's usually a revelation. People get a line out of it. And very quickly on Sierra. So we had a culture, we wrote it down. There it is. or 10 tenants to the culture. We said, were results oriented? Code compiled or it didn't? Or, you know, we won the deal or we didn't. Customer obsessed. The customer was not happy, go fix it. So each one of these simple sayings had two to three or four sentences. And, you know, proof is kind of in the pudding. I would say, we had a great engineering team. They built a great product that was ahead of the competition. I think in terms of like execution we did really well, but in terms of the culture, it was one aspect to it. And when I left, it's almost exactly 18 months ago, our glass door rating was 4.6 out of five. Our employee net promoter score that is based on internal survey was 52. That is how happy were people to work at that company would they recommend it to someone else. So as a comparison to other world class companies, like Amazon and Apple and Netflix, we're doing pretty well. Customer Network Motorscore was 67. Again, pretty good when compared to some world class companies. We had 40% growth in the last year, and we had a fantastic nine figure, very high multiple strong exit. Happy employees, happy customers, happy investors. We had a great product, but here's the thing, we were no different than you. There's a bunch of peak-man CEOs and ELT members in the audience. We are exactly the same as you. We were 10 million a year, figured out product and market fit. We had a great customer list and we had a bucket load of problems to solve. But what we did was we wrote it down, we repeated it often, we built it into reviews, we had it in rewards, we lived by it. And we acknowledge like the culture's gonna break from time to time. And we used to say as a manager team, when the culture breaks run at the problem. I don't even think we fixed every culture break, but I think the employees gave us a lot of credit for it. You can do this. We were no different than you. And this is nowhere near as sophisticated is what Netflix did. I don't think we were particularly charismatic or particularly sophisticated about how we executed this. But we talked about it. Every QBR, every company meeting, we talked about values and culture. We took on one of these as kind of, as I look back, I'd probably do it differently. Not sure I'd do 10, but collaborative team oriented, through the crunch of time, I'll go through this quickly. That was the stated cultural rule. But what I found myself doing, as president, was frequently talking about, let's find formation. I used different metaphors to describe this US Navy acrobatic flying team into same organization, most and by everyone on the team at the same time. It's very simple. That was the informal thing. What happened was that phrase started appearing in emails and chats and zoom meetings with people who'd say, they'd be in a meeting, hey, Sally, I don't think we're flying information. Can we go over this again? And it became like a watchword. So at Netflix, with freedom comes responsibility. It's extremely important, quantitatively freighted comment. So it's the RF flying information became the thing that people said, it was ubiquitous. And so something to think about as you do this, you can say collaborative team oriented, or you can choose something that's simple, clear, and memorable, kind of like what Netflix did with freedom comes responsibility. And think about as you're creating your cultural rules, this one was for teamwork. I think it's about stuff that's simple, it's clear, and it's memorable. Exercise is to take back. We got two minutes here. I promised this. So since Sanquit's watching you, it's got attendance on here. He's going to make sure everybody goes back to their job. I'm getting. That was just, that was just getting. Write down your values, what you believe in. Most companies do this. If you haven't, do it. Sit down, take enough time, and sweat the details on it. It should be on your website. You should advertise what are your votes? What do you believe in? what do you aspire to be when you're at your best, right down your culture, your rules. And I would look real closely at written and unwritten, intended and unintended, and make sure you start to converge toward what your written rules are. Present them to your employees often. You should be talking about values and culture at every single company meeting, every single QBR. Just as a reminder, this is what we stand for. This is how we operate. This is how we treat each other. and conduct an employee net from motor score survey. So find out where you are. You don't need to get fancy, just use survey monkey and ask scale of one to 10. Do you like working here or not and ask for comments? And read the comment section. The point of this is finding out where are you right now. And do a company-wide psychographic, pick one of those, bring in the consultant and do it, help people see themselves so they can operate better as part of the culture and have the guts and fortune to encourage to go, hey, when did our culture last break? And I guarantee you're gonna be scared to do this, but you're gonna get a lot out of it. I swear to goodness, your company culture will start to become self-healing. And to answer the question, the way it becomes self-healing is that you ask it to do that. James Isaacs, reach out to me if you'd like to continue the conversation. I guess hit right on the 930 mark. I don't know if there's other questions to ask or? Yes, James. As always, I want to say thank you on behalf of the entire Peakspan team. This was incredibly insightful and you've been incredibly generous. Not only with the thoughtful presentation, but your time. We've got a couple of closing questions here from the audience. One is, how do you preserve culture across a complete overhaul in leadership due to a significant transactional milestone? Hint's yarn. Yeah. So in the case of, you know, you got big mouth. I think, you know, there's enormous real and positional power in leadership. They hand out raises, they hand out termination notice, they hand out promotions. So the, you know, the organizational power resides there. And so I think it's up to them to either preserve it or evolve it. and it's up to the employees to assist, I would say, in that process. But that's not an easy thing to do. Awesome. And then one final question here. Can a culture ever be too far gone to be salvaged? Too far gone. Almost made an add on to that. I said too far gone, meaning like the company is just kind of sick or... Yeah. It's too toxic. Maybe it's in such a poor state as my guess. Yeah, that's a good question. But I do think people setting the right example, sometimes folks from middle of the company or hierarchically lower in the company can set a great example and set a tone and have others follow. I would say it's possible to resuscitate, but it takes a lot of effort. And again, it's a combination of leadership. But if there's a theme in this, leadership is responsible for a lot of this, but they light up the employees to change it and evolve it. So I guess I'm an optimist. I think I don't think it's ever really too far going on. I'm with you there. Well, James, thank you again for the time wisdom the inside, we will. And thank you for everybody that was able to join. And for sharing your morning with us, we're going to be always going to be falling up with a link to the presentation or link to the recording as well as a soft copy of the presentation. And you've obviously see James's contact information here. He's also going to be copied in the email. So if you want to reach out to him as one of our advisors, just go up and click on this topic, seek out his, his thought partnership or our advice as you navigate some of these exercises and reflections for your business. I'm sure he would welcome the conversation. And as always, have a great rest of your week and look forward to seeing you on the next master class. Fantastic. Thanks, Dr. Thank you again, James. Cheers.