 Well, good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us from the next installment of our master class series. You've got your trusted host, your son merchant and partner at the firm. As always, we're delighted to share even a little bit of time with you all. Really excited about the talk with the conversation and importantly, grateful and privileged to have one of our tech-related key span expert community members and just such an amazing strategic and Singularity to our team, Dr. Andre Martin, sure the virtual master class date with us today. By way of quick background, Andre is an organizational psychologist in the author, a best-selling author of the book that he just released called Wrongfit Right Fit. Why and how we work matters more than ever. And so you heard us in this little friendly pre-evil talk a lot about kind of the book tour, but really exciting and many of our members who have attending this, the session have received copies of that as well. He spent over 20 years as a chief learning and talent officer at some pretty iconic brands across virtually every industry including Mars, Incorporated, Nike, Google and Target. He's now acting as a chief strategist and director at the business called Joyful and operates as an operating advisor, board member, executive coach and consultant, including to a number of our portfolio partners. So continue to be incredibly grateful to keep him in our company and to have his impact. and we'll be on to start team, but across your portfolio partners. And the top of the conversation today is one that is near and dear to our herd at the core of every software business is human capital. And he is a person that shares our affinity, our passion for how do you improve talent density, how do you optimize human capacity and one of the things that I know a lot of folks, a lot of founders and executive team members you're thinking about is, it's how do you drive best in class culture And so the topic of today's conversation, which I think is incredibly timely, as we head into 2024, rocking up the year, but 2021 for planning is the four fundamental failures of leadership teams and how you can avoid them. So really no better subject matter expert to share his wisdom and perspective with us. So with that, Andre, I will turn it over to you, my friend. And thank you again for joining us today. It's my pleasure to be here. Thanks for creating the space for me and also for the entrepreneurs that are joining. Good morning, everybody. I hope to spend the hour giving you just a little bit of information inside ideas about how you as founders can create stronger, more effective leadership teams. And so, Senka did a great job on taking you through my career timeline. The only thing I'd say on that is that, in the process of being a part of these companies, I had the opportunity to work with a number of high quality, high velocity leadership teams. And there's some things that these teams do, day in and day out that separate them from the rest. So this presentation is really 25 years of work with executive teams and spending time really thinking hard about what you can do in the early stages to build a stronger team and why that matters, the overall performance of your company. And so I wanna start here, many of you are scale up companies, right? You're in this really interesting stage where you're leaving the stage of survival and you're really talking about how do I scale and build a better business. And you're standing in the space in between no longer and not yet between the past and the present, between survival and scale, between maintaining where you are and building for the future. And there's a lot of elements of that moment that are vital to building for a sustainable growth. And one of them that comes to mind for me again and again is how healthy is your leadership team? And it's really this idea that the way your leadership team works today will be the way that everyone works really soon. Because ways of working for the company, they emanate first from use the founder, they then emanate from your executive team, and the way that that team works dictates the process, the approach, the mindset, the skills that everyone else brings to work. And so if your leadership team is in the line, guess what? Nobody downstream is. If your leadership team isn't committed, guess what, nobody downstream is. And so most problems around growth in these early stages, they can be pointed back pretty quickly to often small, often nuanced, often unnoticed issues in a leadership team. And so today we're going to talk about those and why is it important? It's important for a few reasons. First and foremost, 90% of investors believe the quality leadership team is the single most important factor when evaluating a team for an IPO. McKinsey also tells us that a company is 1.9 times more likely to outperform peers when the top team is high performing. Amazing, right? I have a top team if you're going to succeed. Here's the other side of the coin. In a recent survey about Center Recuritiv leadership, 65% of executives survey said that their leadership team was ineffective. And so right there, what it tells me is it's vital to have a great team. Most executives aren't convinced that they do, and so there's absolute value being left on the table. And so how do you ensure your leadership team is not creating a drag on your growth? You've got to start honestly, frequently, and pretty harshly assessing the team against four fundamental failures. And those four failures are based on 25 years of work and there's these four failures. The first one is a failure commitment, second one is a failure process, third one is a failure of identity, and the last and probably the most fundamental is a failure of trust. So over the next hour, probably 30 minutes, thank you, I don't want to leave some time for questions. I'm going to cover each of those failures. I'm going to talk about what they are, how you can see them, what are some strategies you can use to make sure that you don't experience them. And then we can open up for questions at the end. That sounds great. And one thing I wanted to just share with the folks that are attending is this time is for you all. And so probably nothing more awkward than having Andre just talk for 45 minutes straight. So if you have any questions, feel free to drop those into the Q&A functions. I'll make sure to surface those for Andre. But super excited for double click out all these topics, Andre. Awesome. So, yeah, shoot the questions in the chat and we'll pick them up and answer them immediately. So the first failure is a failure of commitment. And so the question you're essentially asking is, do we have unwavering support to a single purpose and mission? And so as a total geek and researcher, I go out and study the best teams in the world. And there was a team a few years back that tried to scale K2 and it was led by Chris Warner and Chris in the mountain bagging high ego area of technical climbing. The most important thing in most teams is that you are technically proficient. So first thing people work look at. Chris wanted to take a different approach and what he said is he goes, hey, I want to build for success by instead of looking for technical talent first, I want to look for attitude. I want to look for people that can come together and see the benefit of a unified mission. So he scoured eight countries, looked for people who had the right attitude, that is they were team-based, they were flexible, they were agile, and then they happened to be really great technical climbers. And after four failed attempts, after almost falling through the ice in the ice falls. Chris and his team were able to overcome some pretty harsh environment by doing three things. One is they set the tone. They were very clear about what commitment to this team meant. They were fluid because they had great attitude. They didn't have to stick to process and he never allowed competition, not competition for resources, not competition for space, and certainly not competition for ego. And so when you think about this, think about the teams that you're currently running. Only 29% of employees say their leader's vision is aligned with the organization. Most times issues of strategy exist because there's a true lack of alignment. And a failure commitment happens when, at the highest levels, we don't have agreement, we don't have clarity, or we don't have consistency in our approach. And a team without a clear vision, where they're trying to head what they're trying to do, a clear set of purpose, they're unable to really provide that day-to-day clarity that allows everyone to participate in the strategy. And so you know you have a failure or commitment with decisions made, don't make it through the org. I talk to CEOs all the time and they tell me, they're like, God, I feel like people are working on a lot of stuff, but they're not working on the stuff that matters most. And I turn to them right away I say, hey, that probably isn't about them. That probably isn't about their manager. That's probably about the extent that you actually have real alignment on your team at the highest level. And so one of the hard truths that we have to face into as a leadership team is that disagree and commit at the highest level does not work. All you end up getting, if you walk out and disagree and commit environment, is you get disagreement. Any leader that leaves a room disagree and committing, what ends up happening downstream in the water cooler moments, is they start to show the fact that this isn't where they wanted ahead, what they wanted to do or what they believe is the most important thing for the company. We bleed that out of us. As much as we might not say the words, our teams downstream pick that up and then it forces them to spend their execution time trying to align us back to a single vision, a single purpose, a single approach to work. And so what can you do? It's pretty simple. For simple questions, every founder, CEO should be reminding their leadership team every single day. The first one is why it's real better with us in it, what's our purpose? Where are we trying to go? That is making sure that everyone understands in the next quarter, in the next two quarters, in the next three quarters, what's our mission? How do we create value and make money? And last but not least, is how do we get work done? Brian Cornell, I had the pleasure of working for the man for quite a great year and a half when I was at Target, And one of the things that impressed me most about Brian, who started leading target after the 2018 security issues, which put that company a lot of risk, he basically said, the one thing I'm going to do every single day without fail is to remind every single leader that's in front of me, what are purposes and what we're trying to achieve. And their purpose was we are about adding joy to families in everyday life. And so every decision, every meeting, every moment, every opportunity, Brian created this space that literally everyone is aligned and committed to that purpose. And he never missed a moment. He never missed an opportunity all the way down to imagine a fall national meeting with 1,000 head coaches or probably more than that, maybe 5,000, 6,000. And spends the money to create a room. And this is a tried example that Target spends the money to create a room filled with puppies. So every associate can experience joy and know what that looks like and feels like. So when they're in front of a guest in the store, they know what their job is because they felt what joy is before. One of the things that I tell CEOs to do is when you get a point in conflict, when you are arguing about going right or going left, one of the most important things you can do is get out of individual positions, quit asking for individual people to share their point of view and ladder the conflict up to those four questions, right? Given the choices that we have, which one is most aligned with our purpose? Which one is most aligned with our vision? Which one is most aligned with the way we like to work? And that is the way that great leaders use their purpose mission values to help break ties and manage conflict. So if you get stuck, if you find yourself in a place where you can't get the team aligned, ladder the conflict up. You've got to get at people out of their individual functional points of view and towards a larger collective goal. So less and one is avoid failure of commitment by staying in the room until everyone agrees. Argument is good. Time is good. These big decisions should not end with people Disagreting to commit if you can help it at all. So there's a lot of strategies to help you do that. Second failure is a failure of team process and this is the idea whether or not we are spending time together on million conversations. Right? What are the conversations that we're letting in the room in our executive team? And are those the ones that are going to add most to the growth of our business? Now everyone's familiar with the Navy SEALs. You probably watched as many movies about them as I have, but one of the things that really is impressive about the SEALs, right, is that they break down traditional hierarchy. Right? Anyone that comes on that team, they run a flat structure that is much more conducive to to team work happening and the two things that without fail, every member of a Navy SEALS team understands is one, what is the big picture? That is what is the mission that we are striving for and secondly, what's my specific role in it. And the other thing they do is they plan and they train. Right, how many times do we make a decision and run without a clear plan but just a clear end goal? And so what I love about the SEALS is they have a clear chain to command. but they only utilize it in cases of emergency. Secondly, as they give people clear roles, everybody knows why they're in the room, what their job is, and what they're gonna be looked for, and what their account bills are, and they plan and they train. So scenario planning, when you're thinking about strategy, scenario planning is a team process, you need to spend much more time in. You know, instead of limiting the amount of time you're with your team, I would tell you to spend more. Those moments of the executive team should be the only ones to get your head up and out of the day-to-day the business and really start looking a quarter head, two quarters ahead, three quarters ahead, or in Navy SEALS language, the next mission, the next mission after that. And so the average 5,000 employee company waste about 100 million a year in useless meetings. How many of the meetings on our calendars in our executive teams are meetings that honestly don't matter, right? The failure process happens because we are in the business and not on the business. 61% of founders time is spent putting out fires, creating the future. You have to be in it, but you also have to be mindful of where all of your time is going. Because if you're not thinking about the future, even a little bit, if your team's not, then who is? Right. So the hard truth is in many ways your company is your calendar, And your only real job is to add legitimacy to the right conversation. So when you convene your leadership team, what are you talking about? If you're spending all that time doing functional updates, going around the horn and find a different way, find a different mechanism. Use that time to have the most important conversations that are in front of you this week, next week, the week after the quarter after that. One of the things that I encourage all my leaders to do is to start getting strategy on a page. You should be able to answer these six questions at the drop of a hat. You should have these nailed. They should be super clear and they should guide your calendar and they should guide your time with your executive team and they should guide how you spend all the moments in between. There's a lot of literature out there about the right process for an executive team. How often do we meet? Where do we meet? Why do we meet? How do we meet? And as much as I love processes like EOS, I think it's great. Over the course of the last 25 years, I've rarely seen a single system that works for our executive team. The truth is, you have a very unique way of working. You have a very unique way of your relationship with time. You have a very unique way given the cycle your business of when you need to come together and why. And so I would encourage you to first think about those things and then put a meeting system in that's already in the habitual flow of the way you like to work. And so instead of buying one off the shelf, you got to do the hard work to figure out how and why you get together, how do you convene, why do you gather and then just make better use of those moments instead of adding more time, taking away more of your calendar, and sticking to a process that might not work for you. So last question, this question here, this is super insightful. And I'm putting myself in the shoes of like many of founders and entrepreneurs on the line. There's a dimension of this, which is like prioritization. Like what do you prioritize as an organization? And then how you work? For folks that are like looking at this, one, just trying to figure out like, am I, or is our organization a culprit of one of these failures? I have no idea. But how might you advise founders of the line to go through this audit themselves, right? What would they do? What should they be doing for themselves? But then importantly encouraging or challenging their executive teams around to build a pulse on, you know, are we, what are we prioritizing? Is that consistent? Is that adherence, that rubric, that curbing that you outlined? Yeah, I mean, I think what I'd say in second is this, really starting here just saying, hey, have you put all these set in stone? Are you specific enough about them that you could set them on a page and anyone that picks that up in your company, they would go, yeah, that's what we do every day. I'm gonna guess probably not, right? I think secondly is we don't often have the time to stand back from our calendars and sort of like look at your last year. You have a rhythm and flow to the way that you work. You have a rhythm and flow to the way that you spend time, how you like to do one-on-one, so when you like to get your team together, how you like to convene your larger group. And we often never look at that like a system. And so instead of implementing a new system, I'm just like optimizing the one you have. Right, go back at those and really do an audit. I mean, it's a couple hours of time, right? It's a half day with your leadership to me to go, hey, here's us on a visual map over the course of the whole last year. How did these moments that we really use to drive the growth of the business forward to get ourselves up and out of the day to day so we can sort of think about how to build a better business. I think those two things to start. And then lastly, as we'll get to this at the end, but in terms of these four failures, this should be your lens on your team every single day. Are we experienced a failure commitment? Are we experienced a failure of process or possibly are we experienced a failure of identity? This is one of my favorite ones is, does the team matter to us more than anything else in the company? Often what I've found is when you think about a team, we don't often have the same hierarchy of identity. So this is another case. This is Team Germany a few years back in 2014. In this era of all these great stars, right? That were singular, just like infinitely talented individuals on their team, Jeremy decided in order to win their fourth World Cup, they had to go a different way. They had that star. And so they worked together to build a team that had character traits and coherence that was literally all about the team, right? No one's identity as an individual mattered on that team. There was no all-star, there were all we were all stars. And I watched this World Cup. I was mesmerized by this team because it was one of those unselfish games of football I've ever seen play. And they were titled over the course of that year as the team because they had a collective voice, right? No one was bigger than the brand. They looked for external inspiration. They went around the world studying teams, trying to find out a better way to do what they do. And they focused on soft skills. They focused on making sure these football players knew how to motivate each other, manage conflict, give feedback to each other, all those things that allow them to keep that team mentality alive. And so when you think about identity, one of the most honest things that I can tell you is that, hey, about 20% of CEOs display tendencies related to narcissism, which means they are inherently selfish, self-involved. Worst yet, only about 15% of leaders are truly self-aware based on information by Harvard Business. So what does that have with identity? that tells me there's a really good chance that you have people on your team that are optimizing the company for themselves, for their function, ahead of optimizing it for the company, the customers, or the executive team. And so a failure of identity happens when this occurs, when you have leadership team members that are optimizing the experience for something other than the collected good. And so I always think about it this way is, you know, there's two things that get in our way when we're looking at our leadership team. One is confirmation bias, right? When one of your leadership team wants an outcome, for instance, I need more resources in order to do my job. I want to head at headcount. They will sort of optimize the conversation to only pay attention or give you the sources of of truth that allow you to make a decision that benefits them. So if you don't have an identity that's collected, one of the things that will happen is they're gonna give you good information. But it's only gonna be the information that's gonna allow you to make the decision they need you to make, which is to invest in them. And so here's a little bit of a hierarchy identity that I like to think about is you need to, as a leader, look at your team and ask yourself, if you see all the members of that leadership team holding the same hierarchy of identity, we put the customer first. Right, you know that and whether or not they come to you talking about the customer. Do they have knowledge of customer? Do they know the customer? Do they live and breathe the customer? Then it's the company. Right, then it's the leadership team, then it's my functional team, and then it's me. And often that hierarchy is really messed up. You have a lot of leaders in your company that believe they're bigger than the brand. They put themselves ahead of all else. You have others who optimize their experience. to help their function succeed. They put the function above customers or above the company. And then you have others still that will put the leadership team first. Right? I care about this leadership team more than I think when they should actually care about the customer above all else. And so this little identity exercise is really important to do. It's important to use as a leader as you assess the talent that's in front of you, especially talent that's coming in your company. Right? make sure that they hold this sort of identity as they do their work. Make sense? Make stills on the sense. Maybe just two quick follow-ups here. It's like one, how can folks on the line, because part of this is on the acquisition side for talent, and then obviously how do you create kind of a winning and high performance culture and alignment? What council would you have for folks who are now developing, probably gen to the leadership team and want to prioritize right DNA coming to their organization. How could they hear to some of the key principles you're talking about, Andre? And then second is you talked earlier about adapting this to how you work. We at UNI talked about this last week in person, but I think there is like an appreciation for what is the reality of how you work and how you adapt some of these corporate principles. And then too as having, I think the self-awareness a, Maybe the way I work is not the right way for how, what this organization requires going forward. I loaded question, but I'd love to get your perspective next, I'm sure folks are thinking about that. Yeah, I'll say let's say this is the first question first, which is what can you do to suss out? Yeah, some use hierarchy of identity. You know, when you're hiring folks, some of the simplest things I look for is the language they use. You know you have somebody who's bigger than the brand when they make a ton of eye statements and interview. I did this, I did this, I made this happen. I was able to do this. In those early conversations, look for people that talk about the collective, we, that talk about the team, that regale other people, that talk about the success of the folks on their team, what they're able to do of mentors that they had. And that alone is gonna tell you you have somebody that's gonna put the company and a team ahead of all else. So it's a simple little trick, but one that I often use to really help me understand what's happening with this person, how are they gonna get in this company and see the way that we work? The second thing I'd say to you is, when you're trying to build this hierarchy and people that are already there, these gen two leaders that you have, one of the things that Marji Stewart I thought was fasting was they used to run a onboarding process that wasn't your typical, here's your HR systems, here's our products, Here's our values. They basically brought leaders that had been at the company for a long time that know the secret sauce. And they would do 15 to 20 minute conversations that were their rules to the road. What are the two or three things that you need to know to be a success here? And they ranged from ways of working to ways that you show up, to ways that you share information. And it was really a fascinating approach to say, hey, if you take the leaders that are actually best representatives of how your company works at its best, make them the faculty for your onboarding process and let them just teach the real rules to the road. Because in the end, anyone coming in, manage your otherwise. All they want to do is be successful and the things standing in their ways they don't understand the system that they're in. The other question yet, Sankit was really about this idea, what if my ways of working are working? Right? And really like the truth is, your jobs are getting bigger and more complex every day. Right, in scale companies, the thing I love about is you don't need a program to develop yourself, life's the greatest classroom on earth. Every day you're in these jobs, they are getting better. Every single minute, every hour, every second. And so for a leadership team, along with sort of their annual process of resetting strategy, they should be looking at our ways of working, still working. Do we have the right principles? Do we have the right work practices? down to reusing the right platforms. Right? And often we don't look at that. We set those things up. We shift strategy every quarter every year for sure, but we don't actually work on those ways of working in concert. And so I'd encourage anyone when you get together to do strategy, set the strategy for the next year, next couple quarters, and also reset, refresh, relook at how you work. Both as an executive team first because that would become the culture later. And then also for the entire company moving forward. Under the pandemic, that makes a total of sense. And maybe just more tactically, if you're going to have folks online who are potentially orgs of like 30 to 50 people, some that are going to be 200 plus, is this ultimately fall on the founder's CEO is to say, the entire executive leadership team needs to fill ownership and share responsibility around this. Like ultimately, who's driving this, this audit, this critical review on the annual basis, how do they think about mobilizing kind of a recurring game plan or partization of this? I mean, I start with the idea that hey, back to, you know, the concept of every CEO or founder, your only job is to add legitimacy to the right conversations. Those conversations are about strategic bets. They're about operational efficiencies and they're about culture. And a large part of culture comes down to the rhythm and flow and way that we get work done. And so I would say, hey, primary responsibility is the founder, right? When you were five people, you had a very distinct way of working every time you bring in someone new, they're chipping away at your culture. And you have to re-recruit people all the time. And I always tell folks, that's overwhelming to think like, oh my god, I got to run culture for 200 people now. What I would tell you is get your leadership team performing at the highest possible level. Make sure they are committed. They have a clear identity, you have a very strong process. And last but not least, you have trust. Because if it happens there, leadership is modeled, ways of working your model that the executive team is highly functioning, high velocity, they are at peak performance, that is going to cascade all the way down the organization. And so you make culture this big amorphous thing that we have to work on for everybody. And it's like, no, get the leadership team running. Get them running really well. create your version of team Germany or the Navy SEALs. And then eventually that's going to become the way that everyone works downstream. I've seen it happen again and again and again. It also happens in the negative way. Like if there's little chips, cracks in your leadership team, those things become the grand canyon, two, three, four levels downstream. And so don't pretend for a second that these small cracks don't matter that you're keeping those out of the eyesight of your employees or employees see everything. Small cracks, these small failures, they matter and they're impacting the amount of value creation you're doing every day. So let's do one more of these failures. Then we'll get more questions, San kids. So if you're out there listening, you got questions, sort of get them ready. The last failure is a failure of trust. And this for me is the foundational failure. And the one that you often see getting in the way of the overall success leadership team. Do we trust each other to honor our commitments in the spaces in between? That is every time we turn off our screen, every time we walk out of a meeting, do I actually believe you're going to go out and do the things that we agreed to do? And I'll tell you this, picks our animations, a great case study again if you've ever watched them. Anything less than a blockbuster hit is a failure. And they literally take enormous risks every day and trying to create that next blockbuster, that next idea. And some of the things they do, which are really interesting, is they push on sort of some of these fundamentals about how work gets done. First off, every voice is heard. They have these moments where they put a story up on a board and anybody in the company can come and critique it, make it better, look at it. So all these initiatives, they don't have any of these siloed boundaries we have, every piece of work is open to anybody. Secondly, they bet big on people. You know, they work really hard to say, hey, fundamentally, if I get the right people in the room, I give them the resources, I make sure they have strong relationships, I can basically sit back and they're going to get the job done. And third is they believe in this power of the duo's, this idea that every team needs someone who's sort of a true creative or motivator and everybody needs someone that can run process. And often, you know, we are as founders as leaders, we're one of those two things. And so I always look to founders and like, hey, if you are heavy on process, if you're just a detailed person, you probably come from product, you might be very sort of rigid in the ways that you work. Get someone as an operating officer or someone on your team who who can do that other side of it, who is innovative, who drives creativity, who allows people to search for a fine work on the best idea. If you're a creative, surround yourself with someone who knows how to run the engine. And that's what I think Pixar does really well as they think about this idea of trust. For executives in a current company, cultures the biggest challenge to building trust. 34% of leaders right now believe that their leaders give proper attention building trust. Right? So most of your employees don't necessarily see you doing the things that they like to see to have you build more trust in the company. You know another example this comes from PWC as executives overestimate how much they are trusted both with their customers and with their employees. There's a 57 point gap in this piece of research. It's a trust institute that PWC runs between how trusted executives think they are and the trust their customers actually have in them. And there's a 14 point gap between how much leaders think their employees trust and how much they're actually trusted. So regardless, there's a gap. And so the best thing you can do is to be in contact with your employees more often outside of task, right? Being able to really create small venues, small gathering, small moments that allow them to get to know you a little bit better, allow you to see them, value them, listen to their perspectives, and you don't take action, but that process is really important because in this day and age and these hybrid or remote environments, if we don't have trust, you don't have the capital you need to do great work when you're not in front of each other every day. 70% of engagement comes down to a manager. You know this is basic, gallop information. But here's the deal is that when you look down stream, 53% of managers are burnt out. 82% of time, we select the wrong person for a manager role. So trust in your company, ask aides. If you don't have great managers, right? You're growing fast. You haven't built the capability. They're all sudden these individuals that were great once are now leading big teams. If you haven't built that skill, that capability, trust is gonna erode your company. Engagement is going to erode your company, right? Because your managers likely aren't ready to do the job of representing you, how you work, what you're looking for out of the company. And a failure of trust happens because we don't, in the end, build nurture deep relationships. Now many of you are gonna stick here and say, I don't have the time, right? My hair's on fire, I'm spinning plates, I'm putting out fires, I'm just trying to keep my head above water and I'm treading every day. And I'm like, I get it, I get it. But trust doesn't have to take a lot of time. It just has to be consistently done in small moments over time. So I don't forget that that right relationship matters to you. And so the hard truth is trust is earned and unerred. And it's at risk every day, right? All of your employees, like right now I'm looking at data, tell me everyone's got their head up. Everybody's infinitely browsing. Everybody's looking for greener grass, a place where I'll be valued, a place where I can be more meaningful work. Your executive team's doing it. Heck, you might be doing it. And certainly your employees are. And so literally don't leave it to chance. The thing that will keep people at companies is that they are connected to the individuals they work with below the level of getting a task done together. That's why you'll stay. And so the more vulnerable you can be as a CEO, the more you can create small moments of connection with your people. The more you can catch people doing the right thing, pick up holidays, write a personal letter, all these little things that people do. I mean, that's the thing that's gonna keep your folks around for a long time. I'm a big fan of this book. It's called The Art of Gathering by Priya Parker. She talks about this art of gathering and how when we can be now, it matters more. You might just have two days live with your employees. I would tell you this, if you're getting your team together, executive team or otherwise, be really careful about overfilling those agendas. Especially if you're hybrid, absolutely if you're a remote company. It used to be the day that we could sit pastly and listen to nine hours of someone Piffy like myself talk about leadership or strategy or something else. Those moments now need to have a sitting need and knee elbow to elbow, looking each other in the eye, and saying, what do you mean, how can I help? How are you doing? Do you understand what we're trying to get done? Is there anything I can do to remove roadblocks? Tell me about what motivates you. Those are the moments. That's the capital it's gonna get you through all the moments in between. And so the other thing I'd say is there's also a really great tool that can both have business value and can help you build trust and that's inspiration. Right? One of the things I used to do with all my teams is every meeting I held, didn't matter if it was 200 people or five, we had an inspiration dose. Something out there in the world that was intriguing me, caused me to get excited, begging me to look at new perspectives and new ideas. And the thing about inspiration that people don't know, And this is going to sound totally geeky and a psychologist so bear with me, is that it's actually a motivational process. If I see something that's inspiring, there's a transference of energy. That energy gets placed in my day and helping me find better, different, or more meaningful solutions and problems that I face. Inspiration is one of the greatest tools you have to get greater operational efficiency, to get more innovation, to get more customer support. It's a transference of energy. And if you can put inspiration doses in your world in very short stents, you're gonna see people start to create better ideas, start to trust you as a leader because it's an easy way to get to know you what you're thinking about, about you having to be vulnerable or lay out your life like it's a bad country song. So, Lesson Force trusts the foundation of all of it without it. More almost every one of the failures of commitment, a process of identity become probabilities as opposed to just possibilities. And so I'll end with this. You know, it's a quote that I love and it's one that I live by which is never doubt that a small group of thoughtful committed citizens can change the world. It's the only thing that ever has. And so instead of trying to build a big company, instead of worrying about 250, 300, 400 or 25 people, worry about the six that are need and need with you every day. Build a strong executive team, watch out for these failures, and you're going to have the opportunity to do some great work over the next couple of decades in the company you're trying to build. I feel like every time I speak I want to go run a marathon. But really, we're doing every day anyway, so let's just get back to run the marathon here in a bit. Well, this is awesome folks. I feel free to drop questions. I've got one here that I'll log over to Andre, but as always, incredibly inspiring and really thoughtful. So please drop your questions. I guess just one quick question for you, Andres, that there's obviously this big debate across corporate America, or just across teams of all sides, all of our organizations, sides, etc. around hybrid versus in person. One might have the opinion that hearing some of this and saying, well, this lens itself really welts in person, right? If you're getting serious reactions how you work and all that gets up, what would be your counter argument to that? So the teams that are remote, for us or distributed global organizations, how they can be successful executing this playbook for those organizations. Yeah, here's what I'd say is, hey, I, you know, I think we've honestly been having the wrong conversation for about the last three years about, you know, do we go higher, hybrid, do we go remote, are we face to face? I sort of stand back and like, the answer to that question is the last question that you answer, right? If you know what your purpose is, you know how you make money, You're clear about how work gets done when your team is at its best. That's going to basically tell you where you need to work. And so here's the deal is pay these strategies are a universal, right? It's just when you're working remote, you have a few moments with people, right? My problem with remote work is that often I watch it happen and it's purely task-based, right? I'm automating, I'm automating, I'm automating, I'm automating. And what we're missing is those moments that we used to use to rebuild trust, to remind people what matters, to connect people to our customers or to our values or gather informally and just have a meal together. That's what we're missing. So my question is like, hey, you just have to recreate those. You still have as many moments together, right? The moments are just far more task oriented. There are in and towards efficiency. It's a leader you got to step back and say, hey, when I do gather my team if we're remote, I better make sure that those are the most curated, most value based moments, all ever have, because I just have a couple of them. And I think there's a moment that's coming, which we're going to sort of step back from remote hybrid face to face and go, Hey, actually, let's just talk about how we work and work in our best. And then let's figure out where we need to be to do that. Regardless, you're gonna convene your people at different moments. You just gotta be much smarter, much more careful, and really practice that art and gathering. And then all this can happen pretty easily. Super helpful. Andre, a couple questions here from the audience. I'd love more information on the hard truth, disagree and commit, doesn't cut it at the highest level. Many leadership folks talk about building trust and having conflict, but what happens is, what happens if you can't actually get everybody on the same page? Yeah, I mean, here's what I'd say is you got you got to ask the question of why not? Right, often in my experience, and again, it's one person doing 20 years of work in the space, we get to a space of disagree and commit when people are unwilling to let go of their personal point of view. right? I have a personal position that I'm unwilling to let go of. And so I tell people every day, I'm like, hey, you know, ladder that conversation up to real values, up to real strategy, up to real purpose. And you're going to unlock the decision that makes the most sense given where we are. I think the second thing I'd say is, is make sure you're bringing in more data. You know, so I will tell you that hey, I've been in the room for some of the hardest conversations you'll see in business, and the best leaders find a way to unlock people from those individual positions and get everyone sort of seated say, hey, this may not be the best thing we can do, but it's the thing we can do right now. It's the next first step. And so, man, you know, here's what I'd say, is it feels like that. It often feels like I can't get everyone to agree. I would argue that you You can't get everyone to let go of their individual positions. You can't get everyone to trust. You can't get everyone to follow the same process that there's some of those failures that are actually in the way of you getting full, honest and complete commitment to a path forward. And right. And is there any significance to the order or the order of the lessons that you kind of went through in terms of like number one, being most important to, or is it just kind of, how I just calculate them out? No, actually, late amount of reverse order. So if you think about fundamentally trust is a basis, before you worry about anything else, build trust as individuals. Make sure that everyone on that team trusts each other as people first, right? Secondly is then you've got to build identity, right? You've got to get everyone oriented to customer company team function self. And then you gotta build a really good process that we can interact together and make the right decisions and have a million dollar conversations. And last but not least, you have to be able to extend commitment out and through the organization at the highest level. So I sort of work through them in reverse order for the presentation, but I would back up and say, work on Ms. Trust first, identity second, then get a process and then really work hard to establish the long-term commitment that everyone can abide to. That makes a ton of sense. And then I get to be back all the time for my life, which is, you think you said one thing and then you've received another, right? So obviously, there could be situations where, as an executive team, as a founder, as a leader in your business, you have a impression of how you're performing that could be different from what your employees feel. So when you think about measurement, feedback, what are the things that any successful high-performing scale-up should be measuring on a regular cadence? What systems, what data should they be collecting to ensure that what our executive team is prioritizing, is doing, is trying to affect, is in fact, reflected about the vocity of the employee, but also sentiment across the team. Yeah, I mean, I think first and foremost, you've got to measure the operational health of the company. Right, so you have to have really strong metrics that tell you whether operationally the company is healthy, right? And you should look at those frequently. You shouldn't dive into a frequently as leadership team, but you should be keeping your eye on them. So you know where there is a million dollar conversation you need to have an executive team. I think secondly is you need to pay attention to the health of the executive team itself. Right, so I mean, I take those four failures. I put them on a continuum of no risk as a one, big risk as a 10. And I have, you know, I'll have every one of the leaders on the team put where they think we are right now. And you'd be amazed at how different the opinions are. Right. But that can help you measure risks. And then last but not least is, hey, if you're not collecting, collecting sediment data on your employees. Man, ask them this question, right? If you only ask one question to your employees around engagement or sentiment, ask them if they're getting more from the company than they're putting in. Right? And you have to ask anything else, right? Because if they have that, if they're getting more from this company, more learning, more growth, more opportunity, more meaningful work, more colleagues, more connections, If they're getting more than they're giving, that's the state you want people. That's a basis of commitment. And then I also think, hey, if you want to get interested in doing additional engagement work, you should, you should do it early. You know, the one thing a CEO should never have questions about is operational health and the level of engagement or commitment of their people. And often neither of those things are readily available to us. without him you just sort of you're guessing you're you know you're tilted to windmills and that's a dangerous thing to do It is on an intro here. That's really helpful Andre on the earlier talk you talked about For one of the questions from the audience around If you can't drive alignment might be a question of whether or not you've been successful as a leader in terms of diverse and folks from their biases right their perspectives or open them up One thing folks might be thinking about is well Well, at what point do I say it's not a leadership deficiency, it's not a coaching deficiency, it's a talent deficiency. When do I cut bait? You've now managed a global organization of hundreds of thousands of folks. What has been your kind of operating model on this is a coaching and a leadership challenge for me versus like, gosh, this is like, I need to cut bait and we need to fire as quickly as possible, level up, etc. Like how? and any wisdom on that on that topic for folks? Yeah, I mean, I'll start here. Like, you know, you're scaling up a company, everybody. And, you know, the jobs, like I said, are getting more complex every day. There is talent that will continue to rise. And there is talent that they're just not going to be able to do the next thing. And what I see in most CEOs is they know it. They know when it's someone that they has the raw skills, has the values, understands the way of working, has the learning orientation that they can continue to grow and excel and they know when they're standing in front of somebody that just isn't going to cut it and often we just wait far too long. You know, we wait far too long and the opportunity cost of keeping someone in place because we love them because we care about them because we they were with us from the beginning. some of those dangerous things we do. And in that, it's a failure of identity, right? Because if you're thinking customer and company first, you should be looking at your team every quarter and say, do I have the team that can activate this strategy and make sure that the customers have the best possible product in the world. And you should be looking at that as every quarter is a CEO. And frankly, you should be looking at yourself, right? Do I have the skills and capabilities needed to run this company at this scale. And often we just don't wanna have that conversation because we like each other as people. But that is us orienting ourselves ahead of everything else. I don't wanna have that difficult conversation because man, Sang, it's been with me since day one and you know, we're really good friends. And I'm like, that is not actually making the best decision for the company. Talent conversation should happen. At least twice a year, you should be looking at your talent, You should be assessing them and do they fit our values? Do they demonstrate the values and the behaviors we most see every day? And are they mission critical to the future of this company? That is they have the skills, experience, and knowledge that continue to help us grow. And if you're not looking at your talent on some sort of matrix that sort of looks like that, a couple times a year, if not four times a year, I kind of think you're not doing your job. That's very helpful. any final questions from the audience? Andre, as always, thank you so much from all of us here at Peace Band on the F. We're our entire community for you sharing your time and you're wisdom with us. Every conversation is an energizing one. I think this is such an important topic as folks go into the holiday, awesome time to kind of reflect on what we're doing while we're crushing, where we can get better, and as you know, like the founders that we have the privilege of working with and backing these are folks that are falling out of their chairs and they listen to this conversation because they're just hunger for growth in consistent development. So thank you again as always and if no further questions, we will as a follow up, share a copy of the presentation, a link to the recording. And it folks want to get in touch with Andre. He's copied on the email, but you know, feel free to reach out with any follow up questions. Although as we're happy to broker an entree, but thank you again, Andre, for everything that you do for us. You got it and thanks for having me. I just say the founders on the line like hey, it's 10% shifts. You know, don't go back and try to recreate your leadership team from scratch, but just use this as a lens for a while. You know, get 10% better every day, every quarter and you're going to be in good shape when it comes to your executive team. So if you need help, I'm here. I have a lot of time. I believe that executive teams have a heartbeat of the company and can help you run a good one if you need some help. I'm going to use this opportunity to also throw in a self-subs plug if you haven't checked out under this new book. Wrong fit, right? Why have we worked on that? Please check it out. I'll drop a link in the follow up materials to Amazon. But as always, support a dear friend, but also just amazing wisdom and nuggets of great thoughts on that book. So definitely check it out. Thanks. Bye everybody. Great week. Take care everyone. Thank you. you