 Well, good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us for the next installment of our Masterclass series. I am really privileged to be joined by Andy Mewatt, a 20-year Go-to-Market ops leader, and connoisseurs, and the current VP of GTM ops at Carta. This is gonna be a fireside chat. We've heard a lot of conversation around RevOps now Go-to-Market ops, and really excited to be able to have this conversation with Andy, who's been arguably one of the kind of the the forefathers and thought leaders of all things and the Revops movement, GoToMarketOps movement, you saw in some of the over materials that we sent across, some of the materials that he that he's prepared on this topic. And so it's just really excited. They'll have this conversation with him by way of really quick background. We just mentioned that he's decorated GoToMarket operation later in Pioneer of the discipline. It's been a passion for his for a long time. And he inspired him to write a book in this topic, which was that rub off sign book that we had circulated as a pre-reading to this session. Andy brings over 20 years of experience, building and scaling, best in class, go-to-market teams as a go-to-market ops leader at companies such as Upwork, Box, Culture, Ambin, Now, Carta. Today's the VP of go-to-market ops at Carta, leader in the equity management software, arenas supporting 40,000 customers in 160 countries globally. Andy is deeply passionate about understanding the evolving landscape of go-to-market motions and innovating strategies to adapt to these changes. His entrepreneurs, his billy, spirit led him to co-found Gated where he revolutionized outbound email strategies. And he's also, in his free time, no matter, not sure how much of that he has available to him, is also an investor and active advisor for several companies, including SONAR, Go-To-Market Fund, SONDO-SO. So suffices say could not be more privileged and grateful to have the option to share this virtual masterclass stage with Andy. And we've got obviously a really exciting discussion plan here, but as always, this time is meant for you all. So we'd love to make the session interactive. This is going to be a fireside chat. And so as you have questions for Andy, please use the Q&A function at the bottom of your screen. And I'll make sure we service those questions to Andy. But Andy, good morning. Great to see you. Great to see you. Good to be back. Andy, anything that you want to add in terms of your background, I tried to, my goals, to always make my guess blush a little bit. But anything you wanted to share in terms of your background or even the journey to where you're at now at CARDA. That'd be awesome to hear about. Yeah, nothing to share in the background. I think there was, I've kind of had two careers. I've had the, before I figured out what tech and Revops was and then post that. So no, let's dive right in. Awesome. So obviously I think Revops, now go to Barkerops and I've had better figure out the right legs kind of be using, but maybe it's just a great parlay to the topic of conversation. From your perspective, I think the historical conversation always been around REBOPS. It's now a transition to go-to-market ops. From your perspective, how do you define it and what is it at the highest level? Yeah, good market ops is sales ops, marketing ops, and CS ops all in one. Things across the funnel rather than just thinking how do you execute for somebody. There are so many breakpoints between the functions, between marketing and sales, whether you think about it as like customer marketing or lead flow or ABM or whatever it is, there's so many handoffs between sales and CS and vice versa in terms of expansion, new sales. And so this is a function that's thinking, how do you drive efficiency? How do you drive revenue across the entire go-to-market function? I think when I hear rev-ups, I think it's frankly just rebranded sales ops like you meet 90% of the people that say their rev-ups, they're just sales-ops people. I came more from the post-sale-ops and the marketing upside, which are much more data-intensive. And so I think to do GTM-ops, right? You don't just understand the tooling and do what you're asked. You understand data and you're really proactive. That makes the time to say something. Maybe if we start off at the onset, we'll try to follow a logical flow in terms of having this conversation, But I think the first obvious question is, is when do you hire for GTM ops? Right, and maybe you've even talked about it in the context of, you compartmentalize that across the revenue lifecycle, marketing ops, sales ops, you know, it's pretty sick of that's ops. When and how do we think about picking kind of a holistic strategy versus, you know, maybe your compartmentalize, I want to start with sales ops, then move into either directions. Does that make sense, Andy? Yeah, it does. Generally, I think about like a first seed in series A and up to kind of mid series A, you should probably just have your line leaders that know how to administer these functions, right? So in the systems and the practices, I think you're not going to be hiring somebody out of Oracle or LinkedIn, typically to be your first head of sales or your first head of CS. They're going to fail because they don't have all the infrastructure. They don't have enablement. By the way, an ablement often is in GTM ops as well too. They don't have enablement, they don't have data systems, all of this stuff. And so they're going to struggle. So generally, like, you're going to probably have kind of like muddled through it with your functional leaders of sales, CS and marketing. And then at some point you're going to say they're overwhelmed. We're building out a second team. We need to be able to add more people. Generally, I'd say I see the first tire, mobs generally will be the second and then CSOPS oftentimes is serviced from SOPS for a while and then eventually they get their own as well. So that's kind of how you see it grow. I'd say, you know, I always advise people, like if you're growing fast, higher as early as you can, so you're going to avoid making all the mistakes that that you have to unwind and fix. And is there kind of a marker when you say, if you surpass X or if you achieve certain milestones, you'd be doing yourself a disservice if you didn't have a dedicated ops leader or IC if that makes sense? Yeah, I'm not a fan of hard and fast numbers, but probably, like I just dropped that one, which everyone always asks me, and I'll stick it into the chat now. It's said over to you last night, but it was kind of the, when should you hire like one of the rev-ops ratios, where the right ratio is when you hire and my answer is always it depends. There's just so many factors. That being said, like if you're north of 7, 8, 9 million, you don't have at least a junior person making things work, you're probably in trouble. And if you're growing above 10 and you don't have a senior person being strategic about it, you're probably in trouble. And what do you say? Like when you, that makes that makes a ton of sense. And I just sent that and it got to everybody because I, um, a bit of a self-serving kind of T up there because I know that was something that you just spoke on recently, but is there, from your perspective, when you look at folks who are just getting into their, their GTM ops journey, is there a, um, if we put aside, um, some of the hardened fast rules, is there a, is there a, are there a consistent set of problem statements that you see are a best fit for saying, Hey, this tells me you need a GTM ops leader, or someone who wakes up thinking about this problem every single day. Does that make sense? What are kind of the early kind of pain points you see at a GTM kind of lead, GTM off lead trying to solve? Yeah. Lead flow, lead routing, emissions, although I can talk about my opinions on commissions, which is don't do it too early. Top of funnel like nurturing, I'd say would be one sales data and targeting would be another one. like those are all good ones that, you know, your, like, your functional leader is not equipped to think about, they're going to say, great, like, when the opportunity stages or, you know, how do we nurture this or that? But they're not going to go the level deeper. And if you don't have somebody thinking about that stuff, you'll probably struggle. That's amazing. And if I, if I can't just on what we're talking about this topic itself, you've built some amazing GT on ops team and a bit of part of some remarkable kind of hyper growth stories. a culture amp that my box upworked now, Karta, Karta potentially being later stage than some of the other things that you've done. Can you share a little bit about like, you know, at those businesses, what was the state of play when you were kind of coming in, how did you think about kind of goal and mandate? Yep. Karta and Box were both like free IPO. I joined Box right at the IPO. So it was 40,000 and 50 million in revenue. Carter is in that range. So definitely bigger teams working to lots of tech debt and just opportunities to improve decision making. Culture and I joined, I was the first Revops higher at like eight million in revenue and I very quickly built out the team. We were kind of fixing some tech debt, but it wasn't too bad. They hadn't made too many mistakes. Upwork was the first one in my career I basically was running BD and strategy for the CEO and then he asked me to run a sales team and then we started to figure out that we needed a CRM and then I built out marketing automation and sent an email to 800,000 IT people and put up work on the spam list where they couldn't send an email. So I learned that one the hard way. That's a rude thing. And when you think about, you know, you've got multiple kind of sides of the spectrum there in terms of like earlier stage on the onset of your scale of journey with culture amp and then some of these these more mature companies kind of free IPO. I think the line share of folks on the call today you're going to have revenue leaders, go-to-market leaders, CEO and founders, businesses, any word kind of in the zip code of like call it five to 30 million of ARR. As they're thinking about bringing on their first go-to-market obsoleteer, what would you cancel them on in terms of like ideal kind of persona and profile. If you were to architect the ideal leader, what would that, what would their CV and background kind of look like? That's a good question. I mean, it's funny because like the real stars, it's hard to go like to be the first hire, right? Because there's so much broken and there's so much that you have to like figure out. You know, I'd probably be looking for maybe not the superstar on my first hire, but maybe like a solid director that can get stuff in place. And then you're bringing somebody in with that demotivated substance. There's no perfect answer to this problem. But if I had my brothers, what would I hire? I'd hire somebody that understands that. I think if you're, if it's the first hire, you need somebody to understand the systems and this will not get their hands dirty. Which I did at Coltramp for six or nine months until I brought the team and scaled that. You need somebody that really thinks about data. You know, they're waking up and they're looking at the metrics of the business, not just how to process a lead. And so you want somebody that's really thinking about where is the conversion in the business and what can I optimize versus waiting to be told what to do? That makes a ton of sense. And there's always this, I think, this perspective around, and I've certainly, we've certainly seen this in experiences, but when you think about like having a CRO, for example, if you've been, you know, necessarily gotten a good kind of pulse on your early kind of management and seriatogies kind of sales playbook evidence of just having your early kind of cohort of reps producing, it might be too early to bring on a very expensive CRO, right? because that person is likely not going to be rolling up their sleeves, going to require a lot of cost to build out the infrastructure, etc. So you want to have some foundation to success that we can build upon. How do you think about that for this particular hire? I.e. is it... Do you see companies getting to trouble where they try to bring on someone too senior too early to your point to where most times that'll fail? No, I don't think you can bring on somebody to senior in ops unless you're just not growing fast enough. If you can give ops the tooling budget and the air cover, like somebody super senior can be highly effective. That makes a ton of sense. And maybe let me think about this. Like now, talked a little bit about kind of leader, like when is it the right time talking about leader? I'd love to spend a little bit of time talking about how the ops organizational model evolves because you've seen it at different levels of maturity. You've helped scale them at different levels. So we were to take on the earlier side, culture and banal on the other side of the spectrum, like a card, etc. I'd be curious if you if you have to bucket it into like a crawl walk run model, maybe that's at like five to 10 million of ARR, 25 to 50, 50 plus. How does that, like, what is that organizational model kind of look like in terms of leader, maybe some of your lieutenants, some of the functions that are being supported under undergoat market ops, would love to get some color on that in terms of, where does it start? How does it evolve over time? I mean, it starts with a single person and ministering all the tools, then you break it out to softsmops and CSOPS, generally because the tools are different and the stakeholders are different. Then you start to bring in a layer of kind of supporting functions, right? Like business systems, enablements, data, and, you know, by the time you're done, you've got people that are plugging into the stakeholders and then you've got people that are executing a lot of the stuff. And so you break it out over time. And you talk about this in your, in that article that you actually had linked out here that I send around to everyone. There's perhaps a different schools of thought in terms of what should be funneling it to a GTMOPS leader or function versus what may sit out and finance, for example, right? We're talking about compensation, which I want to say was like something enabled in peace, etc. What do you typically have roll up into GTMOPS that you think is very logical? What are the things that you've seen? You know, folks roll into GTMOPS that you think believe, maybe belong in other elements under a different leadership in the business. That makes sense. Yeah, I mean, I don't look at it as like what should or shouldn't be. I think it depends upon like how capable the partners that you have are, right? So, at Carta, I think at one point, Deildesk and Comp had been in Rebops, but many years ago, there's a really strong finance function, right? Like RevRack and Deildesk and Comp are not broken. And so they're not on our team, but it doesn't stress me out. Those are much more technical areas that are a little bit less strategic and they run really well. I have views on how we can improve them a little bit, but I don't care where they live. Enablements is one that sometimes is in ops, sometimes is not. I think it's highly effective if it's in. Data is something I deeply believe is something that needs to be in, it ups needs to have the capability. What you'll find is generally data in most companies is because the product data is so, would GTM data you can pull it out of the SaaS systems for a long time, but at some point you reach a limit on that and what you'll then find is typically the data teams are sitting in product because product data is much more data modeling intensive and then business systems like sometimes IT wants it but it's in my mind it's much better when it's closer to GTM as well. That makes a ton of sense and maybe just I guess the with some of the fluidity that exists here I'd be curious like a lot of folks in the line may or may not have brought on their first kind of dedicated you know GTM op or revops. leader, whether it's someone seniors or mid-level, from your perspective, what should a, you know, factor, like if you were taking on a, you know, rural, you know, 10 to 30 million dollar air business, what would be kind of the initial objective for you coming in, right? What are the things that, because I think in some cases you may be, you know, maybe you're shaping the day-to-day based on other, you know, other examples, but you're kind of turning, you're kind of turning into uncharted territory, right? So what should this person be looking to do, initially coming into the business to understand what should be the initial scope of focus and responsibilities? That makes sense. Yeah. Mr. Strategic alignment with head of sales, head of marketing, head of CS, quicky valve of the tech stack, understanding the partner functions and how those are plugging in and prioritizing. Could be some of them can often be bottlenecks. and understand the metrics and what's working in the funnel and what isn't working in the funnel. And from there, I mean, that should take you two months at most. That makes a ton of sense. Where have you seen most folks fail in this kind of initial immersion process into the business of a curiosity? Director level like in below people I see I give this speech a lot to people which is you need to force trade-offs right like it's so easy to say Oh cool. You want that you want that you want that I got it. I'm on it. I'm on a great idea great idea But then people will be disappointed what you need to do you need to be able to say great idea Here it's seventh on the list here's the six things above it and I'm going to attack them in this order and you start to be able to get a lot of respect from people right like Don't over promise and under deliver I think that's one. I think people to get too technical and don't spend time understanding the metrics and waking up every day thinking about the metrics and how do we hit those things. And then I think it's a lot of like, how easy are your stakeholders and partners to work with and can you engage them? Like those are all areas where I see people make mistakes for sure. That's super, super helpful. And oftentimes there's some, I would add one more. Who you work for and how your org set up is kind of key to success, right? Like I am a peer to head of sales, head of marketing, head of CS, and it allows me to drive hard and be a partner to them versus an executor. I've seen up sometimes like, talk to just under the head of sales, but not partner with the head of marketing, and it can make it really hard. And actually, that's a beautiful kind of teah, because that's that is something I'm curious about because I would imagine through either companies that you worked at or companies that you have advised, you've seen organizations, a variety of different organizational philosophies that have contributed to great success of the ops function versus potentially, you have failure, you might have had a great middle-level senior director leading the function, but with a lot of inertia or a lot of like, you know, kind of roadblocks of big boulders that organization that they were unable to move. So if you're speaking to a lot of the CEO and founders who are looking at or exploring adding this function to the good or market team, what council would you have in terms of like, you know, philosophically, philosophically, how they should be approaching this to ensure that to your point that GTM-Obs leader is seen as a peer or has the the right amount of influence, weight, etc. The organization is willing to embrace some of the things that the the GTM ops function with deliver for the, or could deliver, I should say. Yeah, I was the first tire for J. Peterson, CRO, head of all go to market at Coltramp. Um, and I was his right hand, you know, over there for four years, we left within a couple of weeks of each other. Um, by the way, our whole team at Coltramp was very solid and most of the most of the ops team still there. So it wasn't like we left in a fellow part. Um, you know, I was the first tire for the COO at CARDA. Like I think you need to take this role seriously. And you know, the COO, part of the reason I'm a CARDA is because Tom, the COO, was incredibly thoughtful about the org structure that would help me succeed. And so I think people that kind of, it's funny because I, I lost a candidate to a company where they don't respect ops and like I felt sorry for that person, but they, and I got a great second hire, but I think companies that don't respect ops and and be very thoughtful about the org structure for it to succeed, those are places I would go or most of my peers would go. And do you think, do you think most are most great candidates challenging those reputant leaders, that executive team in terms of their Phil Socklow, you, and prioritization of ops in the interview process. Is that something that like you look at challenged on as a as a scale up looking to bring on some higher or is that something that you've got to kind of internally reflect on as you go through that journey? I don't think they're challenging you on it. I think they're listening to how you think about it. And if you don't think about right, they're probably deprioritizing you. That makes a ton of sense. When you look at you, you talked about in terms of areas where companies do fail down, So we talk about not having enough prioritization around the function, the role, the opportunity. What are other things that you've seen? Great scale ups. Doing correctly when thinking of building their their their good market ops discipline. And maybe I'd love to parlay that with like people love to hear about firsthand stories. And one of the things that you look, you know, reflect back on over 20 years and said, a gash. If I went back, I wish I would have redone that. That was a huge mistake that I see in hindsight. Are there any kind of obvious examples that come in mind? Either one, you've seen just generally across scale ecosystem and two, things that you've personally stepped your toe on. I guess I don't make mistakes. I struggle to implement and execute. And And so like, it's more having the nose which every time I do it, I get better and better at it. I'm like, where are the blockers going to be? So I joined, I joined, um, Carda, and it wasn't a blocker, but it was definitely slowing us down. Um, it was one, it was one function like business systems like, and I spent the first three months because they just, they hadn't had coordination from the ops. So they were just doing what they wanted to do. So I spent the first three months really getting aligned with like the business systems team. And like now we can move at lightning speed and we're not tripping over each other. You know, it's like a card of the finance team was frankly a blocker, right? And like they would say one thing to you would do something else. And like that was just where I got tired and why I'm sorry, not a card at culture. The finance team at card is great. I just got tired of biting that uphill battle. And that's kind of one of the reasons I finally wrapped up. So I think that's the key one. It's like if you're CEO, you need to give your GTM ops leader of the air cover periodically, right? Like I don't need it often, but there's gonna be four to six times a year where I'm gonna need that air cover to come on in and help me solve a problem with a cross functional partner or drive alignment with stakeholders. Maybe just on that topic, we're pivoting a little bit back to leadership. If the scenario is we're in the market, so we're 10 million of error, we're ripping it, growing 150%, amazing market opportunity. We're probably gonna be graduating from, potentially have a group of four to five reps, to potentially a pod of 10 to 15 plus rights, we wanna make sure that the foundation for our home go to market is ready for scale. One is who would you advise is involved in that recruiting process interview process. Two is what are the like absolutely critical discussion topics you should be having with that leader right so I talk about some of the systems piece. I would imagine there are folks where you look at the persona you look at the profile and you're like wow on paper amazing but I need to better understand they need to be able to talk about X or they need to be to be able to kind of walk me through why, et cetera, et cetera. So I feel like I got the right person, Jordi my organization. Does that make sense, Andy? Like what are the things I guess more directly that you would be asking in a question bringing on your first kind of middle level, go to market obsolete or? Can you force prioritization? I wouldn't worry too much about diving into their tech chops. Like they've got to have it at that point in time. Yeah. I tend to draw really deep on whenever I interview a candidate, not just rev-ups, but just anything. One of my favorite questions is, if you're three terms, you pick the one and then I'm just going to go as deep as I possibly can. I would just do that to make sure that they're not. You can have some people just playing at a high level, trying to make the execs happy. You've got to be willing to go deep when you need to go deep. I don't know if there are a big spend portfolio company, drop me a line, I'm happy to interview them for you for half an hour. Are there, are there, and I will definitely take you up on that. Are there areas where you've seen folks consistently make mishires? The same people do churn through companies, right? So there are mishires like, I don't, there's not a specific reason why. Like I know the, I mean, if someone's doing a year, a year, a year, like I just ask questions. Or I, you know, it's like, you did, at that point they're either picking a company wrong or they're picking the leader wrong, or they're not effective, one of the three. That makes sense, Andy. So I noted here online that you just opened up a role for a GTM, how do GTM enablement lead at Carta? I'd love to have you maybe speak a little bit too, how you view kind of leverage enablement as a part of your good market op strategy here at Carta. Yes, huge. It is the team that helps ramp employees. It helps say, it meshes deeply with the managers, like it's, I always say great enablement, your customer isn't the IC, it's the manager, right? So it really brings that partnership much closer together. It makes the whole org just function better, right? So I'm completely not ripping it apart, but I see so much potential with enablement and really driving hard on that right now. It's always been a lot of my time. I've got a whole article on it we can drop in, but I kind of use, there's like 10 foundational layers of enablement and it's funny like we set down with our team. And I was like, listen, no point in fingers, but here are the 10, rate yourselves. And you know, they're like, there's no green there yet. I'm like, great, there isn't, but it's been fun as we look at each of those, right? Whether it's competitive Intel or onboarding or product skills or methodology. And it's been fun to really open them up and say, well, what does great look like and how do we get there? So I mean, enablement is done right. I guess I've lived in places where it's been done right and places where it hasn't been and you can tell the difference very quickly. Yeah, and maybe that's just another great segue took a philosophical point, which is, you know, are there, like, when you look at how you've kind of built and scaled different go-to-market ops teams, I mean, we talked about initially, you know, potentially a leader taking on the entire kind of go-to-market ops kind of life cycle and function in over time, they're being qualifiers to then specialize. So generally, how have you seen, is there a general rule thumb that you've seen in terms is where we go from, hey, I'm going to have one of my monomy leaders own enablement. And now we're at a place where I need a dedicated leader thinking about that problem and that strategy day and day out. So is there generally kind of a role thumb or thing that you reflected on in terms of where you go from kind of porous at all, spend a little bit of time here versus I need someone to be, you know, kind of a specialist in this domain in this area because the business requires it? Well, to be clear, I had a leader. I'm just hiring a new one. Yeah. I guess the question still stands in terms of how should folks be thinking about generalization versus specialization as they're scaling opponents of their GTM op strategy. Hmm. I mean, you need specials right off the bat. Right. Like you need somebody to understand the marketing automation tool. You need somebody that's getting deep into customer data and how it's flowing. You need somebody that's really living with the managers and understanding like how are their reps ramping? like how are their reps ramping and training? Like those are all, like you need people that can be deep and specialized very quickly. And then maybe more specifically, like if you were, if you were looking at some company bringing on a holistic GTM ops leader, at what point do you start to say, hey, I think you're large enough to wear it. You probably want someone dedicated on marketing ops, sales ops, and now CS ops. I mean, that's like 15 million, 20 million in the era. Like you've, I mean, probably more closer than 10, like you need somebody that's dedicated on each of those things pretty quickly. And it's just like pattern recognition of like, when does CSObs become a full-time thing? And it's not just service from source. And so there's so much of my job as pattern recognition, right? Like I've seen, I saw it a box, right? Like we bought game site because the CS team couldn't, it would take them six months to make a change in Salesforce, right? And so like I saw the same thing happen here they got more nimble, but they also needed product data. And so like you see these things and they're, I mean, so much of GTM as you've seen it before, you can bring the experience, but then you've got to customize it for like the company and the go-to-market motion. That makes sense. And question here, how do you, how do you level up a director of shops or mobs into a Rob Ops role rather than hiring outside? What should their priorities be? teach that they need to understand how to force trade offs. If they don't know that, don't spend the time. If they solve drop that article in here, just to give it a see. And just pull it up. Lost all this windows. But yeah, here's my article on kind of like forcing trade offs. And then the other one, we just got beaten into a sit box, which was there is a director level. And either you're there or you're not. And so I'm looking for that article, but it was, you know, for me, if somebody doesn't tick like a director, don't try to like, level them up. Like there's only so much that's gonna happen. So I'm just dropping that one in here as well too right now. And it's like, yes, if they don't tick there, you can coach them on it. But I think it's like, who's coaching them deeply and actively around like, hey, here's the areas you're missing? And so like I, our lead RCO box is really clear. I'm like, this is what a director is. This is what a VP is. And when you make it, that's legit. I think, so I take it very seriously. I wouldn't try to level somebody up that doesn't have the core functionalities that I've gotten that article around like what is director level? And I think that applies not just to ops, but to basically any function in the company. Yeah, that's super helpful. And is there a high level as you're thinking about? So you talked a little bit about pattern recognition. As you're going through the culture and journey, I'd be curious at how you saw organizational objectives for your GT off steam involved. Right? So what did that look like at five to 10 million of error? How are you thinking about what were some of the strategic objectives at 30? and then as you guys are scaling to 100, just curious if you could provide kind of painted picture for folks in terms of how this priorities had, where they started, how they evolve over time, based on what you were seeing in the business and what you saw as the opportunity. They never changed. They were three in this order. Drive revenue, wherever in the funnel that exists, we go where we would throw a lot of our team at those points in the funnel that we saw as opportunities. Drive efficiency, and I'm happy to double click into that one, but I think a lot about it works structure for efficiency. And then make sure you never forget the experience the customer has engaging with the customer, the go-to-market teams, right? Sales, marketing and CS. And you can do that through systems in a lot of cases. Like those three meta priorities never changed. I didn't get too much into the, what are our priorities for this quarter or this? We were just very, you know, we were much more focused on like, How do we change the lead conversion from here to here rather than how do we roll out a lead scoring model? Those are the subtle nuances and difference, right? But it always rolled up to one of those three things and ideally multiple. Well, Andy, that's maybe good touch on it because I think there's a logical conversation around, you talked about efficiency. I'd love to hear a little bit about how you thought about that. Some of those core foundational pillars And then two is maybe a nice little transition to do, one of the obvious metrics that AGM obsolete or should be tracking. And how does that kind of, how has that kind of been different for some of the businesses that you've looked at? Because they're serving a different market segment, they've a different good market motion, different ACV side, et cetera. Yep. So maybe let's talk about efficiency first, right? I'd give you a story at Colt Shramp. We had, I don't know, 100 sales reps and some account managers pinging security constantly saying, I need this, I need this, I need to review this security questionnaire. And finally, we just said stop. Here's one new person sales and CS and account management can only ping this person. And that person will work with security. And we took what was just a total mess. We put it on one person. And then we gave them technology to automate all those asks and all the recurring standard questions. And so we were able to like triple in size, sales move faster with their security responses, security wasn't overvoted, and then we were able to drive efficiency through technology as well too, right? So like I'm constantly thinking about how do you re-look at the org structure as well, right? And that goes beyond like traditional revops. But I think it's, if you're really sitting there and you're right hand to COO, CRO, and you're thinking about efficiency right, you're thinking about things like that. Like I said, it, it, Carlyce out with the mid market account team for our corporate business and I said, what's going on? Now things going, they said, Andy, we spend 50% of our time looking for new accounts to pick up. I was like, no, it's impossible. Like tell me, you know, show me your calendar. Let's walk through this. And after we were done, I was like, yep, that's possible. They literally, they're literally like sorting through nine different data sources. And so I said to the leader, as like if I automate this and just when you release an account, I give you the next best account. Like you're telling me I can double-reproit divinities. Like, yep, it's as cool. This is now a priority for us. And so like that's, there's so many of those opportunities that I think a traditional RevOps function doesn't look at. Yeah. And what are some of the other kind of metrics that you see are kind of the foundational ones that any GTM ops leaders should be tracking within the first 30, 90, first year on the job. These are the ones that you should be reporting on. This is the one that you should be thinking about waking up the morning, go to sleep at night. There's so many more that I will miss. But if I just ride off the top of my head, it's web traffic, lead conversion, pipeline coverage, win rate, deal cycle, ramp time, risk, which is a generic one, but I can always talk more about that. And then like expansion opportunities and expansion, deal cycle. And then, you know, the support metrics and implementation metrics honestly don't change much. Like unless something bad is there and then you can dig in on this. What do you mean by some of the risk metrics that that's an interesting one? So most people within CS will say I want to reward my CS team based upon like what the net retention of their book is. That's bullshit. Like a CS rep can do everything right and the account still chirps and they can do everything wrong and the account can still retain. So what I believe, if you take a step back, what's the core job of the CSM? It's to identify and mitigate risk. So I tweak all the metrics to be able to measure that rather than book a business which they always complain about. Oh, you gave me this account or you gave me this one or this one isn't working. And so I tend to look at a lot of metrics. I'm like, what's the core job and how do we get the right metrics aligned with those people? That makes a ton of sense. And at the core of it, I think is obviously, You know, I felt like if you don't have good data infrastructure, the integrity of the data is poor, but kind of like these metrics sound amazing, but you know, the fidelity of the tracking could be kind of useless. So as you think about like, what is the kind of table stakes go to market ops kind of tech infrastructure, someone should be trying to build in, right? Because I know companies, for example, at 50 million of ARR that are kind of behind the ball a little bit in terms of having built out some of this B.I. layer and data telemetry across the different functions and its prohibit their ability to develop hypotheses, have a good sense of ICP, understand what channels are performing, what's contributing to sales cycle, degradation, rep proficiency, etc. So if you were to guide folks in terms of saying, here is what the stack that your GTIM ops leaders should be building here, you're the obvious tools, right? I think the obvious tools today and the obvious tools in five to six years will be very different. Yeah. Like I truly believe the entire modern, the entire go-to-market stack will be rebuilt on the data warehouse. I think as you kind of touched on it, a lot of companies don't get that. And so there's metrics that you can pull out of CRM or marketing automation or like, but they don't tie together and you can't do the right now. It's like a good example is pipeline coverage, right? Like most companies, like if you sales forces a point in time system for opportunities. So you can't tell me, on the individual app, you can look at the history and kind of track it back, but you can't tell me at a scale, like how much pipeline did we have for our targets a quarter ago and are we tracking better or worse on that metric, right? And so those are the types of things where you start to realize, wow, I do need a modern data stack. And that's a hard thing to do. And that's like, you've got to justify the investment. I remember at Culturamp, I went to the COO, CFO, and basically said, hey, we need to make this investment of two or three people. It's going to take six months to nine months. And we need to build out the modern data stack for our GTM effort. And that's hard, right? And it's not without risk as well, too. I think over time, that stuff's all going to get a little bit easier. And the modern data stack will start to become more fluid for folks. But yeah, like, I mean, should you have a CRM? Yes, should you have a marketing automation? Yes, should you have a support and ticketing system? Yes, you should probably have a product data mapping to CSM motions and actions. That's it. That's the basic stack. And then from there, like, how do you make it nimble? And I guess there's the data side as well too, but I'm generally ripping out data vendors every couple of years. But Andy, that makes the time a sense. And maybe just one tax question on that, because we've got several companies kind of going through that journey. I mean, what's kind of the timeline of something like that, kind of truly building out your data infrastructure, your data layer thoughtfully in the right way? And two is when you think about, you know, kind of the brain trust spearheading that, what does that team kind of look like? It'll high level in terms of like leadership collaboration. And obviously it sounds like a GTM ops leader's perhaps leading this with support from others, right? So just curious what you've seen work out most effectively. You're, I mean, it's a significant investment. There's some shortcuts you can take. There's some tools that will like do it all in one, but it's, but you're going to eventually hit some other barriers. I mean, you can need one to two data engineers and you're going to need like people that are building dashboarding and data modeling on top of that. So that that's, I probably get away with two to three people, but you have to have people that are hungry and They really understand where they're trying to get to and they have a nose for numbers at its core versus just building stuff Like I was lucky to have a couple of those folks at Coltramp that really got it and even educated me and taught me so much well too But yeah, it's it's a nine to twelve month process done right and how you see and even then like it takes time to get it right Yeah, I I fully appreciate that. And you think about some of the businesses where folks are, you're going from a, you know, kind of a, you know, an organizational model, or maybe you're conducting ELT meetings, or even some of the GTM meetings, and it would be one matter, you're implementing these new systems process, et cetera. How do you institutionalize some of the change management that has to inevitably happen as you go to this V2? Right? So like in terms of what are things, you know, what have you done successfully in your career to affect the change management in terms of helping reframe the organization and looks at their data? So that makes sense or maybe just provide some perspective or context in terms of what you've got to show them metrics that change how they look at data, right? Like I, it took us by six months to build out pipeline coverage at culture. And it took me maybe or weeks at Cardup because they had the right data infrastructure in place. and they had a good data engineering team. And so we were able to get really fast. And so within two months of me being there, we were looking at pipeline coverage and having different and interesting conversations. I think the CFO said in the board meeting recently, like, wow, we've got better GTM data we've ever had. And we're just starting. There's so much more to go. But it's nice to be able to make quick wins and quick impacts. I don't know if that answered the question you asked. No, it does. It also sounds like you part of, you know, I, it sounds like having peers across the across the executive leadership team, but certainly the go-to-work at ops that are vulnerable and potentially very receptive to understanding where their function might be failing or where their opportunities for growth. It sounds like that's a key piece of it, right? If somebody's going to be defensive and or you know what I mean. Well, one thing I found, one of my key things that I drive that I started to realize more a carder than ever before because I was coming in again and Fox I get it it was the first time at like that scale and now I'm kind of coming in and doing it I mean culture I'd be built it up to that scale but I had kind of wired and everything the way I needed to but it carda I think what I realized is a core function I play is forcing people to have the hard conversations right so somebody brought me hey here's our new marketing global form and If you step back, there's really two things that you want it to focus on. One is lead conversion. Like, are people filling out more forms? And the other one is routing errors. And I looked at it and I said, wow, you're adding, I don't know, five fields to this form. It looks like you're making everyone happy. And not actually making the hard decisions. And the guy was like, yeah, I was like, cool. I think I think you know the right questions to ask. I'm here to help you set up any meetings to be able to force any hard discussions and decisions. like let's redo this and he came back with something that was much better. And so that's an example where like my job's to be able to have the pattern recognition and then force better decisions in the process. And my job's not to make everybody happy. It's to force the right decisions for the business. And that's a hard balance to strike sometimes. No, that's super, super helpful. And I know we've got nine minutes here, but maybe just a a final couple of questions for Andy. I, if you were to paint out what does like the first three, six, nine, 12 months look like for, or just to educate folks in the line who may be exploring bringing on this type of leader, what does in an ideal world the first three, six, nine, 12 months kind of look like as you're starting this kind of journey and you bring on kind of a leader. What can folks kind of expect? Yeah, I'd be curious, like how do you guys approach your portfolio as well too, right? Do you look and say no, we need to have our portfolio have this expertise or do you coach it or do you, How do you if somebody in your portfolio doesn't have a rev-ops leader like how do you handle that? Well, oftentimes I think from our perspective it is not every one of our portfolio companies has a rev-ops leader or GTM-ops leader. I think you'll see like you noted that competency across the current leadership team or or can't believe something that looking for for bringing on a CMO, a CRO ahead of customer success or a CSO, etc But it's not always the case that we've got the competency kind of day one, but we know the importance of that skill set and the leadership team that we have. And the question is really, and I think it's always very fluid is when do our companies end up bringing that in right as minority growth investors were not necessarily it's it's more about sharing your perspective and offering counsel as opposed to dictating what should be done when. But I do think, and that's part of the reason why I think some of the earlier questions around kind of philosophical been really important because some some teams lean in very aggressively early on, which I think is amazing. And then, you know, some teams can't believe we. I'm a little bit bum because I think we we delayed that higher too long. that makes sense and that's kind of biting us down. Because like going from, you know, going from five to 10 is different from trying to go from 30 to 50, right? The sheer just like mechanization, you need to happen to go to market and having things dialed in. It's just a different level of professionalism, right? Or professionalization. I agree. I see more people, I guess it all depends upon if you're growing fast, like over higher and if you're growing slow, then it's gonna, you're gonna, A, you probably wanna track the high caliber people and be like, they'll probably be frustrated if they do. So I feel like, yeah, I do see a lot of like fast growing scale ups that have not brought that person in soon enough or have brought somebody in that's maybe like at a junior director level that can't drive the hard conversations at like senior levels. Well, and maybe the better way to friend that question is, For the companies that you've advised or even just like what you've seen at culture and but now even carto like how do you think about? You know key accomplishments within that those time kind of bands right so what what have you accomplished in the first three months as an effective GTM obsolete or what have you accomplished in the first six the first 12 right what are the big boxes that you checked? There's so different Carla and culture but if I just take the card or the culture amp one like I ripped out all the stupid stuff in the first, identified all the stupid stuff in the first month. I hired one or two additional people. What else? Got aligned with all leaders as to what was the roadmap looking like. Did some really early quick wins, right? we were taking two days to reply to a demo request. Like we got that, we put a clock on it and got it down like under five minutes very quickly. And so you're just like, you got those quick wins and then you're just driving on them as fast as you can. So it's just gonna be so different for every company, like what that path to scale and ramp is. But you know, winning, and I guess I'd say like getting that metrics, that weekly metrics that people are looking at and that weekly metrics cadence is like critical early as well too. That's amazing. I know we've got three minutes left here. Any Andy, this has been incredibly insightful and I appreciate you, you spent the time to kind of show your wisdom and experience on this topic. I think these are all hyper relevant topics for our community. I mean, maybe one question for you, it feels like, you know, over the last five years, the heat and light around Rob Ops GT Mobs is really, hit some formal things, celebrate. What, why do you think that's the case? I'm just curious as a student of the practice. Has there been something that you've seen in the evolution of the practice that has garnered more attention and focus? Or is it just one of the things that just becoming more, you know, there's just more visibility into it? I mean, I guess we're the grease that makes the machine work. Yeah. And the machines of, you know, maybe with COVID and everything like, You look really smart in 2021, like everybody did. It didn't matter if you had a monkey for Rebops. But when the market starts to hit your machine and it starts to slow down, it's probably when it's interesting because probably people are like, Rebops, I can let it go and I'll be fine. But we're the grease that makes the machines work. And if you don't have it, you're going to start to feel it. And maybe just I actually, that makes this on a sense. I mean, it was certainly hard to, you know, every company struggled to grow in 23. Everybody looked like a rock star as a revenue leader, et cetera, in 21. But certainly a different environment in 23 and 24. Maybe on just the CS, the CS ops piece. I'd love to like, retention is not becoming too great focus, NRR, et cetera. Lower calories to kind of grow where there's more of opportunities. From your perspective, like when you think about CS, I was like, what is the opportunity? What are the big boulders that you can move with dedicated focus and attention in this area? So if you're looking at folks that are saying, hey, listen, like I'm trying to think about what would be the impact of a CS and dedicated CS function or what impact we drive there? What are things that you call out? You talk about customer health, understanding some of the expansion and widespread opportunity accounts. But what are other things that you would call attention and saying, here is potentially the opposite awesome, not dedicating focus on this area in your business. Right ratios building out of tech touch, CSM motion, to be able to scale up and getting the right ratios for your bigger accounts and moving a lot of the smaller ones to much more of like an automated type of service. Managing risk is, I mean, I think health score everyone is as like, cool, they're red, but like we locked on to risk at box. We had like if you were over $20,000 and you were at risk, we had a meeting every week to talk about those. And like my view is, if your job is to identify and mitigate risk and account churns and you told me about the risk one day in advance, I'm going to take your head off. But if you identified that risk six months out and we were talking about it and we were working it as a company and we were giving you all the support that you needed and the executive level outreach and it's your, you did your job. And so like being able to tighten up on that risk engine, I I think is something that's really important. And what role in your experience, have you seen CFS, or CSS, off-split in terms of like being able to provide a much more credible kind of value story? Because I feel like that's one thing that's come into tremendous focus right over the last like 18 months. And I think it exposed a lot of companies that were either had software value propositions and or could not effectively communicate value, right? It's a part of a QBR process as a part of the, kind of the renewal cycles. Just curious in terms of have you seen CS ops play a meaningful role in terms of helping surface that? I think that's more enablement. And I think that's where a lot of companies they hire a sales enablement, but they don't think about it as GTM enablement, right? Like your CS and your support and your implementation people need to be educated on how to communicate value. And that's less of an ops function and a data driven function and more of enablement function. Yeah, that still lives underneath ops, but like I'd say only 50% of companies put an able met with an option. This is amazing. Andy will incredibly insightful conversation. Thank you sir for all your time in wisdom. We will be, if folks have questions, we wanna reach out to Andy, feel free to reach out to me, happy to help kind of broker the connection, but incredibly strategic topic and Andy, thank you for being so generous with your time. We're gonna share a link to the recording for today's session and what I'll also do as a part of that, is I'll include all some of these, these helpful resources that Andy is going to provide in the chat that I've tried to share with everybody, but Andy, as always, thank you, sir. Great to be able to share the stage with you and have this conversation. Thank you so much. Have a great day. All right. Take care, everyone. Cheers.